
PAGE 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
British Columbia 
Provincial Nominee Program 
Entrepreneur Immigration 
Base 
Program Guide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024 

PAGE 2
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  2 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
This guide is designed to help you understand and navigate the Entrepreneur 
Immigration – Base stream, including the registration and application 
processes. If you require more information, we are here to help: 
 
 
 
For more information, please contact: 
 
The BC Provincial Nominee Program 
450-605 Robson Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 5J3 
Canada 
 
Email: En.Imm@gov.bc.ca 
Website: http://www.WelcomeBC.ca/PNP 
 
 
 
The offices of the BC Provincial Nominee Program are 
located on the traditional territory of the Squamish, 
Musqueam, and Tsleil-Waututh peoples, who have been 
stewards of this area for many generations. 
In the event of a discrepancy between the BC Provincial Nominee Program website and 
the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base Program Guide, the information in the program 
guide shall be considered correct. Please check our website regularly to ensure you are 
using the most up-to-date version of the applicable program guide. 
 
Beware of immigration fraud 
We encourage you to protect yourself from immigration fraud. 
Learn more about protecting yourself from fraud.  

PAGE 3
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  3 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Table of Contents  
 
 
Updates to this Edition ................................................................................................... 4 
Part 1: Introduction & Overview .................................................................................. 5 
1.1. About the EI – Base Program Guide ......................................................................... 6 
1.2. Streams at a Glance ................................................................................................. 7 
1.3. EI – Base Process at a Glance ................................................................................... 8 
Part 2: EI – Base Requirements .................................................................................... 9 
2.1. EI – Base: General Nomination Requirements ........................................................ 11 
2.2. EI – Base: Personal Requirements .......................................................................... 13 
2.3. EI – Base: Business Requirements .......................................................................... 17 
2.4. EI – Base: Minimum Investment Requirements ...................................................... 21 
2.5. EI – Base: Job Requirements ................................................................................... 25 
2.6. EI – Base: Partnership with a Co-Registrant (if applicable) ...................................... 27 
Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process ....................................................................... 29 
3.1. EI – Base: Preparation Before You Register ............................................................ 30 
3.2. EI – Base: Registering with the BC PNP ................................................................... 33 
3.3. EI – Base: Applying to the BC PNP .......................................................................... 40 
3.4. EI – Base: Business Establishment .......................................................................... 45 
3.5. EI – Base: Nomination ............................................................................................ 47 
3.6. EI – Base: After Nomination.................................................................................... 50 
Part 4: General Program Information ........................................................................ 51 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application ........................................................ 51 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination ............................................................... 51 
4.3. Request for Review ................................................................................................ 52 
4.4. Misrepresentation .................................................................................................. 53 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration .................................................... 54 
4.6. Use of Representative ............................................................................................ 55 
4.7. Definitions ............................................................................................................. 58 
Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide .............................................................. 59 
5.1. EI – Base: Self-declared Scores ............................................................................... 60 
5.2. EI – Base: Business Concept Scoring ...................................................................... 69 
 
  

PAGE 4
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  4 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Updates to this Edition  
 
The following list outlines the updates made to this edition of the Entrepreneur Immigration – 
Base Program Guide: 
 
May 27, 2024:  
1. Removed references to “pilot” as the Regional stream is now an ongoing part of the BC PNP. 
2. Minor clarifications and corrections to language and broken links throughout. 
 
  

PAGE 5
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  5 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
Part 1: Introduction & Overview 
 
Sections: 
1.1. About the EI – Base Program Guide   
1.2. Streams at a glance  
1.3. Process at a glance 
 
 
BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration (EI) is for experienced entrepreneurs who are ready to 
invest in and actively manage a business in B.C.  
 
This guide will help you understand and get started on a path towards permanent residency. If 
approved as a provincial nominee, you and your dependent family members can apply to 
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) to become permanent residents of Canada 
in the Provincial Nominee class. Read this guide carefully before you register and apply online.  
 
You may choose from the following Entrepreneur Immigration streams:  
 
• Entrepreneur Immigration – Base: intended for experienced entrepreneurs who intend 
to establish new businesses or take over and grow existing businesses in B.C.  
     
• Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional: working with regional communities, this stream is 
intended to attract entrepreneurs to participating regional communities to establish new 
businesses that align with the communities’ economic development priorities. For more 
information, refer to the EI – Regional Program Guide available on the BC PNP website.  
 
• Strategic Projects: for foreign corporations that intend to establish a subsidiary or branch 
office in B.C. that strategically aligns with their core business. For more information, refer 
to the BC PNP website. 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 6
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  6 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1.1. About the EI – Base Program Guide 
 
 
The BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration – Base Program Guide is designed to help you 
understand and navigate the EI – Base stream, including the registration and application 
processes. It provides complete and comprehensive information about the EI – Base eligibility 
requirements.  
 
This guide also provides details on how to register with the BCPNP Online system and outlines 
the information you will need to provide. For more information on required documents for the 
application, please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC 
PNP website. 
 
Please check our website regularly to ensure you are using the most up-to-date version of the EI – 
Base Program Guide. If you require more information, please contact us at en.imm@gov.bc.ca.  
 
If you have already registered or applied to one of the Entrepreneur Immigration streams, your 
registration and, if applicable, your application will be scored or assessed against criteria outlined 
in the applicable Entrepreneur Immigration program guide that was in effect during the time of 
registration.  
 
Application process graphics are used throughout this guide. They are intended to highlight 
stages of the process that are relevant to each section of the guide. 
 
All dollar figures in this guide are expressed in Canadian dollars
.  
  

PAGE 7
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  7 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1.2. Streams at a Glance 
 
 
  
 
EI – Base  EI – Regional 
Experience 
Within last 10 years: Within last 5 years: 
3+ years of experience as a business owner-manager, OR, 4+ years of experience as a senior 
manager, OR, a combination of 1+ year of experience as a business owner-manager and 2+ years 
of experience as a senior manager 
Net worth At least $600,000 At least $300,000 
Education Obtained a post-secondary credential, OR, experience as an active business owner-manager for at 
least 36 of the last 60 months with 100% ownership in the business 
Business proposal 
You must submit a business proposal to 
establish a new business or purchase of an 
existing business in British Columbia 
You must submit a business proposal to 
establish a new business in British Columbia 
and be referred by an enrolled community 
Ownership percentage At least one-third (33.33%) At least 51% 
Investment Minimum $200,000 Minimum $100,000 
Job creation Must create at least one full-time equivalent job for a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of 
Canada 
Location Anywhere in British Columbia Participating communities 
Exploratory visit 
required? No, but strongly recommended Yes. You must engage and visit an enrolled 
community for support before registering 
Language requirement? 
Minimum of CLB 4 equivalent in English or 
French. Must submit a copy of valid language 
proficiency test results at final report (if not 
previously submitted) 
Minimum of CLB 4 equivalent in English or 
French. Must submit copy of valid language 
proficiency test at registration 
Partner with BC PNP co-
registrant allowed? Yes No 
Partner with a local 
business/person 
allowed? 
Yes 
Registration scores 
Total 200 points (120 points for self-declared 
section; 80 points for business concept). Must 
score minimum of 40 points in business 
concept section. Total score must be at least 
115 points to qualify. 
Total 200 points (140 points for self-declared 
section; 60 points for business concept). No 
minimum business concept score. Total score 
must be at least 105 points to qualify. 
Registration timeframe Registrations are scored within six weeks Registrations are scored within four weeks 
Net worth verification Yes, you must obtain a net worth verification report if you are invited to apply 
Application timeframe Application decisions are typically made within four months 
Interview required for 
approval? Yes 
Minimum amount of 
time to submit a final 
report 
18 months after issuance of a work permit 12 months after issuance of a work permit 
Fees  See Fees Webpage  See Fees Webpage 

PAGE 8
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview  8 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
1.3. EI – Base Process at a Glance  
 
The process at a glance section provides a simple overview of the general application process for 
Entrepreneur Immigration – Base. Complete details of the process are described in Part 3 of this 
Guide. F or other streams , refer to the applicable program guide. 
 
1. Preparation and research: in order to apply to EI – Base, you must first determine your 
eligibility based on the stream requirements. You are encouraged to conduct an 
exploratory visit to British Columbia to learn about business opportunities, the local 
market, and the best community for you to establish your business.  
2. Registration to the BC PNP: create a profile and submit an online registration to the BC 
PNP.  The registration includes details about your work and/or business experience, 
education, language ability, your net worth, and information about your proposed 
business in British Columbia.  After your registration is scored, the BC PNP will invite the 
highest-scoring registrants to submit full applications to the BC PNP. Registrations are 
typically scored within six weeks. If invited to apply, you will then have four months from 
the date of your invitation to submit your application. 
3. Application to the BC PNP: submit a complete application to the BC PNP. You may be 
invited to attend an in-person interview in Vancouver, B.C. to discuss details of your 
application. If your application is approved, you must sign a performance agreement that 
outlines all the requirements you must meet to be nominated. Applications are typically 
assessed within four months. If your application is approved, the BC PNP will issue you a 
letter of confirmation (i.e. a work permit support letter) so you may apply for a work permit 
to IRCC and come to B.C. to implement your business plan. 
4. Business establishment (work permit) period: after obtaining a work permit, you 
can begin to implement your business plan, make your investments, and create jobs. Your 
spouse or common-law partner may apply for an open work permit. 
5. Nomination: after you meet the terms and conditions of your performance agreement, 
you must submit a Final Report to the BC PNP. If the BC PNP determines you have met the 
terms and conditions in your performance agreement, you will be nominated for 
permanent residence. Final Reports are typically assessed within four months. 
6. Application for permanent residence: you, including your spouse or common-law 
partner and dependent children (if applicable), may then apply to IRCC to become 
permanent residents of Canada under the Provincial Nominee class. For permanent 
residence application processing times, please refer to the 
IRCC website (Economic 
Immigration  Provincial Nominees). 
  

PAGE 9
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  9 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Part 2: EI – Base Requirements 
 
Sections: 
2.1. General Nomination Requirements 
2.1 (A) Active Management 
2.1 (B) Residency 
2.1 (C) Language Proficiency 
2.2. Personal Requirements 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility 
2.2 (B) Personal Net Worth 
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience 
2.2 (D) Education 
2.3. Business Requirements 
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses 
2.3 (B) Percent Ownership 
2.3 (C) Franchises 
2.3 (D) Seasonal Businesses 
2.3 (E) Ineligible Businesses 
2.4. Minimum Investment Requirements 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment 
2.4 (B) Ineligible Investments 
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
2.4 (D) External Financing 
2.5. Job Requirements 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
2.5 (C) Job Maintenance Requirements (if applicable) 
2.5 (D) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
2.6. Partnership with a BC PNP Co-Registrant (if applicable) 
2.7 (A) About Co-Registrants 
2.7 (B) Total Personal Investment Requirement 
2.7 (C) Eligible Investment: Purchases of an Existing Business 
2.7 (D) Job Creation / Maintenance 
2.7 (E) Adjusting Co-Registrant Registration Scores 
 
  

PAGE 10
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  10 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
The BC PNP nominates individuals who will be able to make a significant economic contribution to 
British Columbia. The general requirements to receive a nomination are established by federal 
and provincial legislation. As an entrepreneur applicant, you must be able to demonstrate that:  
 
• your entry will be of benefit to the economic development of B.C. 
• you have the ability and intention to permanently settle and become economically 
established in B.C. 
• the information provided in relation to your application is accurate, complete and reliable 
• you will provide active and ongoing management of your eligible business from within B.C. 
 
It is also important that you do not participate in any scheme that is not permitted by federal 
immigration law. To be approved, you must not have entered into, or have intended to enter into, 
an immigration-linked investment scheme. 
 
In the sections below, you will learn about the specific requirements that you must meet to be 
eligible for the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream. You can find further information 
about how these requirements are scored in Part 5. Note that meeting the minimum 
requirements does not guarantee that you will be invited to apply or that your application will be 
approved. 
 
• Carefully review the requirements in the sections below for complete details.  
• It is your responsibility to demonstrate that you meet the program requirements.  
• For information on how registrants will be invited to apply, please refer to the process 
section of this Guide 
 
 
  

PAGE 11
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  11 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
2.1. EI – Base: General Nomination Requirements 
 
2.1 (A) Active Management  
2.1 (B) Residency 
2.1 (C) Language Proficiency  
 
 
 
2.1 (A) Active Management 
 
You must demonstrate your intention to actively manage the business. To be approved for 
nomination, you must demonstrate that you have been actively managing your business in B.C. 
 
Active management means you are accountable for the day-to-day operations of the business. 
Active management must occur while you are physically present at the place of business in B.C.   
 
2.1 (B) Residency 
 
You must demonstrate your intention to reside within 50 kilometres of the business you 
intend to operate (unless otherwise specified in your performance agreement). This distance is 
measured by the shortest available route by road. Travel between your home and your business 
must not require a journey across a body of water that would require a ferry trip of more than 30 
minutes. You must also demonstrate your intention to reside in B.C. while you are on a work 
permit.  
 
To be approved for nomination
:  
 
• you must demonstrate that you have been residing within 50 kilometres of the business 
you operate in B.C. when you submit your final report for nomination.  
• you must also demonstrate that you have been physically present in B.C. for at least 75 per 
cent of the time while on a work permit. For example, if you submit your final report 610 
days (approximately 20 months) after arriving in B.C. with your valid work permit, you 
must demonstrate that you have been physically present in B.C. for at least 457 days 
(approximately 15 months) while operating your business. 
 
2.1 (C) Language Proficiency 
 
You must demonstrate a minimum language proficiency equivalent to Canadian Language 
Benchmark (CLB) 4 to be eligible for nomination, but it is not mandatory to submit proof of this 
proficiency until you reach the final report stage.  
 

PAGE 12
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  12 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
If you claimed language points in your registration, you must upload a copy of your valid 
language test results with your registration. 
 
If you have not previously provided us with proof of your language proficiency, you must upload 
a scanned copy of your valid language test result with your Final Report. 
 
You must possess basic English or French language proficiency equivalent to 
Canadian Language 
Benchmark (CLB) l evel 4 or higher in each of the four competencies: listening, speaking, reading 
and writing. 
 
A benchmark score of 4 is considered Basic Proficiency and means that you can: 
 
• communicate basic needs and personal experience 
• follow, with considerable effort, simple formal and informal conversations 
• read a simple set of instructions in plain language 
• write short messages, postcards, notes or directions 
 
The valid language test results must be from one of the following language proficiency tests 
administered by a designated testing agency: 
 
• the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training
 
• the Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP-General) 
• the Test d'évaluation de français (TEF) 
• the Test de connaissance du français pour le Canada (TCF Canada) 
 
The following table shows the minimum scores that you must receive for each of the four 
competencies to meet the requirement of CLB 4. You must achieve the minimum score in all four 
competencies to be eligible. 
 
Minimum Language Test Scores Required 
 Listening Reading Writing Speaking 
IELTS 4.5 3.5 4.0 4.0 
CELPIP 4 4 4 4 
TEF 145 121 181 181 
TCF Canada 342-374 4-5 331-368 4-5 
 
Test results will be considered valid for 24 months from the date of issuance. 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 13
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  13 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
2.2. EI – Base: Personal Requirements 
 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility  
2.2 (B) Personal Net Worth   
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience  
2.2 (D) Education 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, points will be awarded for personal net worth, business and/or work 
experience, and education. For detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer 
to the scoring section of this Guide. These factors will also be assessed during the application 
stage. 
 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility 
 
Your application will not be approved if you are in Canada without valid immigration status, or if 
you are working without authorization. The BC PNP will not nominate someone who: 
 
• is prohibited from entering Canada 
• has not been lawfully admitted in the country of current residence 
• is in Canada and is out of status  
o an individual whose status has expired, and who has not applied for restoration of 
status within the 90-day eligibility period, will be considered out of status 
• is working in Canada without authorization 
• has an unresolved refugee claim in Canada, or 
• is under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
 
2.2 (B) Personal Net Worth 
 
You must have a minimum of $600,000 in personal net worth, which includes the personal net 
worth of your spouse or common-law partner, and your dependent children, if applicable. Your 
personal net worth must be legally obtained and verifiable.   
 
You must disclose all your personal net worth, including all of your assets and those of your 
spouse or common-law partner, and your dependent children, and any liabilities including 
mortgages and personal debts: 
 
• cash 
• assets in bank accounts (e.g., personal chequing and savings accounts) 


PAGE 14
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  14 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• fixed (term) deposits (redeemable/cashable within 12 months) 
• real property (e.g., real estate, personal and commercial property ownership) 
• investments in bonds, stocks and mutual funds 
• investments in one or more businesses (current value of your percentage ownership in 
business(es), excluding stocks held in investment portfolios that have been included under 
liquid investments above) 
• pensions and other assets (i.e. jewelry, collectables, etc.)  
• liabilities such as real property mortgage(s) or other debts (e.g., personal loans, credit card 
debt) 
 
Future inheritances cannot be included in your personal net worth. The share of business or 
property ownership must be supported by legal documents, such as deeds, shareholder 
agreements, etc. 
 
The IRCC form Schedule 4A – Personal Net Worth
 includes details about how to calculate personal 
net worth. 
 
If you receive an invitation to apply 
 
You will be asked to provide supporting documentation to substantiate ownership, or percentage 
ownership, positions in any business, as well as equity amounts based on current market values, 
and outstanding mortgages or other encumbrances for you and your spouse or common-law 
partner. 
 
You must obtain a net worth verification report from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm. For 
more information, please refer to the net worth review section of this guide. 
 
The verification report will be used as part of the BC PNP application assessment process. 
Notwithstanding the conclusions of the net worth verification report, the BC PNP has sole 
discretion and responsibility to assess your BC PNP application and may request additional 
information, supporting documentation or clarification.   
  
Failure to declare your total personal net worth may result in the refusal of your 
application. 
 
Failure to provide satisfactory evidence to verify your personal net worth and source of funds may 
result in the refusal of your application. 
 
For information on what documents you must provide for a net worth verification report, please 
refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
 
 
 

PAGE 15
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  15 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience 
 
You must have a minimum of: 
 
• more than 36 months (three years) of experience as an active business owner-
manager 
If you have performed an active role in the management and operations of a 
company for which you have held 10 per cent or more ownership during the past 
120 months (10 years). An active role means that you are personally involved in the 
day-to-day operations of the company and have direct involvement in decision-
making.  
Or 
• more than 48 months (four years) of experience as a senior manager 
If you have worked during the past 120 months (10 years) for a 
company/organization as an active senior manager (with no business ownership, or 
business ownership of less than 10 per cent) supervising at least three full-time 
employees, and your National Occupation Classification (NOC)
 is TEER 0 or TEER 1. 
or  
• A combination of at least 12 months of experience as an active business owner-manager 
and at least 24 months (two years) of experience as a senior manager. 
 
In general, to be considered as an active owner-manager or a senior manager, you primarily: 
 
• manage the organization, a department, subdivision, or component of the organization; 
or an essential function within the organization 
• supervise and control the work of: 
o other managers or supervisors 
o professional employees 
• have the authority to hire and fire, or recommend these and other personnel actions, 
such as promotion and leave authorization 
• exercise discretion over the day-to-day operations of the activity or function for which the 
employee has the authority 
 
An active role means that you are personally onsite and involved in the day-to-day operations of 
the company and have direct involvement in decision-making. For example, if you were a 
shareholder in a corporation and your only responsibility was to attend shareholder meetings, 
this would not be considered as being an active business owner-manager as you are not involved 
in the day-to-day operations of the company. 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 16
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  16 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
2.2 (D) Education 
 
You must have one of the following: 
 
• a post-secondary credential (such as a degree, diploma or certificate from a licensed post-
secondary institution). 
or 
• experience as an active business owner-manager with 100 per cent ownership of the 
business for at least 36 of the past 60 months (three of the past five years). The 100 per 
cent ownership of the business may be shared between you, your spouse or common-law 
partner, and/or your dependent child(ren).  
 
If you are invited to apply, you will be required to provide evidence of your education, and you 
may be required to provide an educational credential assessment
, which is an independent 
assessment of your foreign degree, diploma, certificate or other credential. It proves that your 
qualification is valid and equivalent to Canadian credentials.  
 
Language training such as English as a second language will not be considered towards meeting 
the post-secondary requirement. 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 17
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  17 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
 
2.3. EI – Base: Business Requirements 
 
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses   
2.3 (B) Ineligible Businesses  
2.3 (C) Percent Ownership   
2.3 (D) Franchises 
2.3 (E) Seasonal Businesses 
2.3 (F) Agricultural Businesses 
2.3 (G) Businesses in Regulated Industries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, you must answer questions related to your business concept to 
describe your proposed business. Points will be awarded for your business concept, including 
potential for commercial viability, percentage ownership, and economic benefits. These factors 
will be assessed starting at the application stage and through to the nomination stage. For 
detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer to the scoring section of this 
Guide.  
 
To qualify for the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream, you must propose to establish a 
new business or purchase and improve an existing business. 
 
If you are invited to apply, you must submit a comprehensive business plan that provides detailed 
information about your proposed business in B.C. For more information on required documents 
for an application, please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on 
the BC PNP website
. 
 
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses 
 
To be successful in receiving an invitation to apply, registrations must establish a new business or 
purchase and improve/expand an existing business that contributes to the economic growth of 
the province.  
 
The proposed business must be operated for the primary purpose of earning profits by providing 
products and/or services. Additionally, the business must have strong potential for sustained 
commercial success. 
 
The BC PNP does not pre-approve or endorse business proposals.  
 


PAGE 18
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  18 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You cannot change or modify your business concept after you submit your registration. 
You must decide on the specific type of business you intend to establish or purchase in B.C. 
before you register. The business structure must be clearly defined. Partnerships with a local 
partner/business or BC PNP co-applicant(s) are permitted.  
 
The proposed business must be identified by a full six-digit 
North American Industry 
Classification System (NA ICS ) code on your registration form. 
 
For partnerships: 
• you must identify partners and their percent ownership in your registration (total 
ownership must add up to 100 per cent) 
 
For purchasing an existing business: 
 
• you must indicate the specific target business in your registration  
• the business must have been operated by the current owner for at least 60 months (five 
years) 
 
2.3 (B) Ineligible Businesses 
 
Your registration will be disqualified if you propose an ineligible business. The following types of 
businesses are ineligible under the BC PNP: 
 
• an immigration-linked investment scheme pursuant to Provincial Immigration Programs 
Regulation section 6(e) and the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (IRPR) 
section 87(5)(b) and as defined in IRPR 87(9) 
• any business where the terms of investment include a redemption option pursuant to IRPR 
87(6)(d) 
• any business that may be a passive investment pursuant to IRPR 87(6)(c) 
• bed and breakfasts, hobby farms and home-based businesses 
• payday loan, cheque cashing, money changing and cash machine businesses 
• pawnbrokers 
• tanning salons 
• DVD rental stores 
• coin-operated laundries 
• automated car wash operations 
• scrap metal recycling 
• businesses selling used goods (excluding businesses that provide value-added services 
such as repairs, refurbishing or recycling) 
• real estate brokerage, insurance brokerage or business brokerage 
• real estate development activities 
• goods trading businesses (e.g. import/export), unless value add is demonstrated  

PAGE 19
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  19 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• businesses involved in producing, distributing or selling pornography or sexually explicit 
products or services, or providing sexually oriented services 
• any other type of business that by association would tend to bring the BC PNP or the 
Government of British Columbia into disrepute 
 
2.3 (C) 
Percent Ownership 
 
In general, you must demonstrate that you will own at least one-third (33 1/3 per cent) of the 
business in B.C. If your proposed ownership is less than 33 1/3 per cent, you must make an equity 
investment of at least $1 million. 
 
2.3 (D) 
Franchises 
 
Franchises may be considered as eligible businesses if you can demonstrate that the proposed 
franchise is well-established (i.e. ability to expand, sound financial track record, and in operation 
for at least 60 months (five years). If you are invited to apply, your application must include 
evidence that you have received support from the franchisor to purchase and operate a franchise 
location. 
  
If you are proposing to establish a new franchise location or purchase an existing franchise, 
ensure that you obtain a disclosure document from the franchisor before you decide to invest. 
The BC PNP may request a copy of the disclosure document at the application stage. Section 5(4) 
of T
he Franchises Act describes the requirements that the disclosure document must fulfil: 
 
a) prescribed financial statements 
b) copies of all proposed franchise agreements, and other agreements relating to the 
franchise, to be signed by a prospective franchisee 
c) prescribed statements that have the purpose of assisting a prospective franchisee to make 
informed investment decisions 
d) other prescribed information 
e) copies of other prescribed documents 
 
Please visit Starting A Franchise Business in B.C.
 for more information. 
The BC PNP will only consider the purchase of an existing franchise location as an eligible 
business if it includes an expansion/improvement plan that is consistent with franchisor 
requirements. All other requirements must also be met. 
 
2.3 (E) 
Seasonal Businesses 
 
The BC PNP will not consider a business proposal for a seasonal business unless you can 
demonstrate that you will be physically present in British Columbia and will perform an active 
management role on a year-round basis. You must also meet all other requirements outlined in 
this guide. 

PAGE 20
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  20 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
2.3 (F) Agricultural Businesses 
 
If you are proposing to establish a new farm/agricultural business or purchase an existing 
farm/agricultural business, the following additional requirements will apply: 
 
• Your business plan should be based on or cover the issues described in the document 
Taking Stock: A Farm Business Planning Workbook For The Beginning Farmer
 prepared 
by the Ministry of Agriculture. For more information, refer to 
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/agriculture-se afood/business-market-
development/agrifood-business-management/taking-stock.   
 
• Your business plan must demonstrate that you have thoroughly researched the 
feasibility of your farming operation and have established contact with relevant local 
stakeholders (e.g. suppliers and service providers) who can provide support to your 
enterprise.  
 
2.3 (G) 
Businesses in Regulated Industries 
 
Some industries face significant regulatory requirements in Canada. While many of these highly 
regulated industry sectors remain eligible for the BC PNP, the entrepreneur must demonstrate 
that they are aware of, and will be able to meet local, provincial and federal regulatory 
requirements.  
It is unlikely that the BC PNP will approve your application if you do not properly address the 
regulatory requirements of doing business in the proposed industry.  
Furthermore, failure to adequately research and create a plan to address the industry’s regulatory 
requirements may make it difficult or impossible for you to meet your performance agreement 
obligations. 
Examples of highly regulated industries include, but are not limited to: 
• Agriculture, agri-food & aquaculture 
• Cannabis, tobacco, and alcohol production, distribution or retailing 
• Child care, schools and educational institutions 
• Financial services and trading 
• Forestry and mining 
• Healthcare and life sciences 
• Oil and gas 
• Passenger transportation 
• Pharmacology 
• Residential care facilities 
• Telecommunications 

PAGE 21
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  21 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
 
2.4. EI – Base: Minimum Investment Requirements  
 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment   
2.4 (B) Ineligible Investments  
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
2.4 (D) Personal and External Financing    
2.4 (E) Requirement at Nomination 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, you must provide information about your proposed investments 
related to your business concept. Points will be awarded for your total proposed investment and 
eligible investment. These factors will be assessed starting at the application stage and through 
to the nomination stage. For detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer to 
the scoring section of this Guide. 
 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment 
 
You must make an eligible personal investment of at least $200,000 in the proposed business 
within 610 days (approximately 20 months) of arriving in B.C. on a BC PNP-supported work 
permit. The minimum eligible personal investment of $200,000 must be derived from your 
personal net worth. 
 
The proposed investment must be directed toward one business location. 
 
Eligible personal investment is the minimum required investment of eligible business 
expenditures, which may include: 
 
• new equipment purchases  
• leasehold improvements 
• new marketing costs 
• regular operating expenses such as rent, wages, utilities, etc. 
• start-up inventory or new inventory related to an improvement/expansion plan 
• purchase of existing business  
 
The eligibility of a proposed investment is determined by the BC PNP based on whether the 
expenditure is essential to establish and operate a new business or to purchase, improve and 
operate an existing business.  


PAGE 22
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  22 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Consequently, total personal investment may differ from the eligible personal investment under 
the BC PNP.  
 
Some investment items may not be eligible while others may be eligible with limitations:  
 
(i) Purchase of an existing business: 
The BC PNP may consider as eligible investment the purchase price of the business value 
up to $150,000, not including professional fees associated with the purchase.* 
 
You must commit to make an eligible investment of at least $50,000 to improve, upgrade 
and/or expand the business: 
o Eligible investments toward improving, upgrading and/or expanding a business 
may include new capital purchases and equipment, leasehold improvements, 
introduction of new technology, job creation, etc.  
o Improvement/expansion does not include regular operating expenses such as 
recurring inventory, wages, rent, utilities, or maintaining the same levels of 
marketing or advertising expenses, legal or professional fees, business licences, etc. 
o Establishing a new location or a separate business will not be considered as an 
eligible improvement or expansion 
o The BC PNP will not consider the purchase of any real estate as an eligible 
investment towards the improvement or expansion of the business    
 
The BC PNP does not require that you sign a purchase agreement or memorandum of 
understanding if you are purchasing an existing business.  
 
* If you are proposing a partnership with a co-registrant, please refer to the 
partnership 
with a co-registrant section.  
 
(ii) Purchase of a business vehicle: 
The BC PNP will not consider the purchase of a vehicle as an eligible investment unless you 
can demonstrate that the vehicle is essential to the business.  If you can show that it is 
essential, the BC PNP will consider no more than $15,000 of the purchase price of that 
vehicle to be part of your eligible investment. 
 
(iii) Operating expenses: 
Operating expenses refer to regular, recurring monthly expenses that are essential to 
business operations such as rent, wages and salaries, utilities, marketing or advertising, 
bookkeeping, etc.  
 
The BC PNP may consider eligible operating expenses in the following circumstances: 
o For new businesses that are not franchise locations: A maximum of six months of 
operating expenses.  
o For an existing business that you have purchased: A maximum of three months of 
operating expenses. 

PAGE 23
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  23 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
o For a new franchise location: A maximum of three months of operating expenses.  
 
Operating expenses, as recurring expenses required for the business to operate, may not 
form part of the required eligible personal investment for improvement, upgrading and/or 
expansion of the business. 
 
(iv) Inventory: 
For the establishment of a new business, the BC PNP may consider a reasonable amount 
of start-up inventory. The reasonableness of the start-up inventory is based on the 
industry standard, type of products, and size and scope of the proposed business.  
 
A maximum of three months of inventory may be considered eligible. 
 
For the purchase and improvement/expansion of an existing business, the BC PNP may 
consider a reasonable amount of up to three months of new inventory related to the 
improvement and expansion plan where a new product is to be sold. The new product 
must be substantially different than the type of products already sold by the business. 
 
2.4 (B) Ineligible investments 
 
Ineligible investments include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
• cash and working capital (including reserves and contingency funds)   
• wage payments made to yourself and your family members, or other business co-owners 
• refundable deposits 
• real estate and related fees 
• research and development expenses 
• fees and costs related to your immigration application, including: 
o immigration representative fees 
o personal net worth verification report fee 
o fees related to the preparation of review engagement financial statements 
o BC PNP application fees 
 
When purchasing an existing business, only the business value portion of the purchase price will 
be considered as an eligible expense. Professional fees associated with the acquisition of the 
business are not eligible expenses. The cost of real estate or property will not be considered as 
part of the eligible investment. Although ineligible investments will not be considered towards 
your eligible personal investment, they may be part of your business plan’s total investment. 
 
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
 
The BC PNP will not consider as eligible any investment made prior to the date you are invited to 
apply. 
  

PAGE 24
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  24 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
The BC PNP strongly discourages registrants and applicants from making any investment or 
financial commitment prior to signing a performance agreement with the BC PNP and obtaining a 
valid work permit from IRCC. Any investment made prior to obtaining approval and a valid work 
permit is solely at your own risk.  
 
2.4 (D) Personal and External Financing 
 
The BC PNP requires that you make the minimum eligible personal investment from your 
personal funds. You are required to provide documentation that shows the provenance (source) 
of your investment and prove that this money, as well as any subsequent personal investment in 
your business, was drawn from your personal funds. However, you may also use external 
financing from a business partner or financial institutions for investments beyond the minimum 
requirement.  
  
If you need external financing in addition to your personal investment to establish your business, 
you must identify how you will obtain the financing and how it will be applied in your proposed 
investment. 
 
2.4 (E)     Requirement at Nomination 
 
In your final report, you must be able to demonstrate that you have made the investment amount 
in the signed performance agreement.  
  

PAGE 25
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  25 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
2.5. EI – Base: Job Requirements 
 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
2.5 (C) Job Maintenance Requirements (if applicable) 
2.5 (D) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
  
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, points will be awarded for your proposed number of positions you will 
employ and their corresponding skill levels. These factors will be assessed starting during the 
application stage and through to the nomination stage. For detailed information on how points 
are calculated, please refer to the scoring section of this Guide. 
 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
 
You must create at least one new, permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) job for a Canadian 
citizen or permanent resident of Canada in the proposed business, within 420 days 
(approximately 14 months) of arriving in B.C. on a BC PNP-supported work permit. 
 
You must also demonstrate the likelihood of supporting long-term employment of Canadians or 
permanent residents of Canada in the proposed business. 
 
An FTE job means a position of at least 30 hours per week on average and 1,560 hours per year, 
worked by one or more employees under continuous employment. FTEs must be Canadian 
citizens or permanent residents of Canada. 
 
Independent contractors will not be considered as part of your job creation requirement – only 
direct employees of the proposed business will be considered. Any shareholder with 10 per cent 
ownership or more of the business will not be considered as part of your job 
creation/maintenance requirement. FTEs must work at the primary place of business and not 
remotely. 
 
Employment in British Columbia is regulated by the Employment Standards Act. For more 
information, please visit the Employment Standards website
.  
 
If you are proposing a partnership with a co-registrant, please refer to the partnership with a co-
registrant section. 
 
 


PAGE 26
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  26 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
 
The BC PNP will assign you points in your business concept if you propose to create or maintain 
high-skilled jobs that fall under National Occupational Classification (NOC) TEER 0 or 1. You must 
provide a rationale for their inclusion. 
  
When determining the position(s) to be created, please refer to the 
National Occupational 
Classification (NOC) system. 
 
The NOC system is a classification system used by the Government of Canada to identify 
occupations and associated skill levels. The five-digit NOC codes also outline job duties and 
employment requirements. 
 
Proposed wages for the employees must be consistent with the NOC TEER category of the 
positions created. For information on average wages, please refer to information on Work BC
.  
 
2.5 (C) Job Maintenance Requirements (if purchasing an existing business) 
 
In addition to the job creation requirements listed above, if you are proposing to purchase an 
existing business, you must commit to maintain the number of existing jobs in the business, and 
pay your employee(s) a wage that is commensurate with their NOC TEER category. 
  
For information on average wages, please refer to information on WorkBC
.  
 
Failure to maintain the number of existing jobs may result in your refusal at the nomination 
stage. 
 
2.5 (D) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
 
To be approved for nomination, you must demonstrate that you have consistently employed the 
required number of full-time equivalent jobs, continuously, for at least 180 days (six months) 
before submitting your final report
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 27
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  27 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
2.6. EI – Base: Partnership with a Co-Registrant (if applicable) 
 
2.6 (A) About Co-Registrants 
2.6 (B) Total Personal Investment Requirement 
2.6 (C) Eligible Investment: Purchases of an Existing Business 
2.6 (D) Job Creation/Maintenance 
2.6 (E) Adjusting Co-Registrant Registration Scores  
 
 
At the registration stage, points will be awarded for your business concept proposing to partner 
with a BC PNP Co-Registrant. Each Co-registrant will be assessed separately during the 
application stage. Co-registrant registration scores will be adjusted to match the lowest-scoring 
co-registrant. For detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer to the scoring 
section of this Guide. 
 
2.6 (A) About Co-Registrants 
 
You may choose to partner with another BC PNP co-registrant under one business proposal 
under the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream.  
 
Each co-registrant must ensure they provide complete information on their background and work 
experience, their business proposal, as well as provide a rationale for partnering in the proposed 
business.  
 
Each BC PNP co-registrant must meet the individual eligibility requirements listed in the EI – Base 
Program Guide in order to be entered into the qualified pool. 
 
If the co-registrants are invited to apply, each application will be assessed separately. There is no 
guarantee that one or both of the co-applicants will be approved. 
 
Co-registrant(s) must submit their registration through BCPNP Online within 30 days of the first 
co-registrant submitting their registration. 
 
2.6 (B) Total Personal Investment Requirement at Registration Stage 
 
Each co-registrant will receive points based on their proposed total personal investment.  
 
The BC PNP will determine the eligibility of the proposed investment and assign a score in the 
business concept. 
 
At the time of registration, co-registrants must each indicate what their proposed personal 
investment will be.  
 


PAGE 28
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Base Requirements  28 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
In your registration, each investment item in the investment breakdown must only indicate your 
own personal investment and should not include the investment of your co-registrant. 
 
2.6 (C) Eligible Investment: Purchase of an Existing Business 
 
To determine the eligible personal investment for the purchase of an existing business, the BC 
PNP will recognize up to a maximum of $150,000 for each co-registrant’s share of the purchase 
price.  
 
Requirements to improve, upgrade and/or expand the business are the same as outlined in the 
minimum investment requirements
 section. 
 
2.6 (D) Job Creation / Maintenance 
 
Each co-registrant must create at least one full-time equivalent position for Canadian citizens or 
permanent residents of Canada.  
 
At the time of registration, co-registrants must each indicate the number of full-time equivalent 
positions they will personally maintain and/or create.  
 
2.6 (E)     Adjusting Co-registrant Registration Scores 
 
For co-registrants to enter the qualified pool, both registrants must meet the minimum scores (a 
business concept score of at least 40 and a total score of at least 115) and meet all requirements. 
If either registrant fails to do so, neither registrant will be entered into the qualified pool. Co-
registrant registration scores will be adjusted to match the lowest scoring co-registrant. For 
example, two registrants may choose to partner under one business proposal and each receive 
scores of 154 and 118. The partnership scores will be adjusted so that each co-registrant scores 
118 points.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 29
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  29 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process 
 
Sections:  
3.1. Preparing before you register 
3.2. Registering with the BC PNP 
3.3. Applying to the BC PNP 
3.4. Business Establishment 
3.5. Nomination 
3.6. After Nomination: Permanent Residence 
 
 
This section provides detailed information for the general process to immigrate under the BC PNP 
Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream. 
 
 
 
 
(A) Preparation 
and business 
research 
 
(B) B.C.’s regions 
 
(C) Online 
resources 
 
(D) Purchasing an 
existing 
business (if 
applicable) 
 
(A) Registration 
Overview  
 
(B) Creating your 
Profile
 
 
(C) Completing the 
Registration
 
 
(D) Submitting your 
Registration
 
 
(E) Registration 
Scoring
 
 
(F) Qualified Pool 
 
(G) Invitation to 
Apply 
(A) Net Worth 
Review 
 
(B) Submitting 
your 
Application 
 
(C) Application 
Assessment  
 
(D) Interview 
 
(E) Performance 
Agreement 
(A) Arrival 
 
(B) Building your 
Business in 
B.C. 
 
(C) Post-Arrival 
Progress 
Check-in 
 
(A) Final Report 
 
(B) Conditions of 
Nomination 
 
(C) Nomination 
 
 
(A) Applying to 
IRCC for 
Permanent 
Residence
 
 
(B) Work Permit 
Extensions 
 
 
  

PAGE 30
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  30 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.1. EI – Base: Preparation Before You Register 
 
3.1 (A) Preparation and business research  
3.1 (B) B.C.’s regions 
3.1 (C) Online resources 
3.1 (D) Purchasing an existing business (if applicable)  
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 (A) Preparation and business research 
 
Carefully review the program requirements detailed in this guide. We strongly encourage you to 
make an exploratory visit to B.C. to learn more about opportunities and the local business 
environment before you register. 
 
During your visit, you can: 
 
• investigate and evaluate potential business opportunities 
• conduct market research 
• make local business contacts 
• learn more about living and doing business in B.C., and gain a better understanding of our 
health care and education programs, housing, culture, recreation opportunities, and 
lifestyles.  
 
If you require a visitor visa (Temporary Resident Visa) to travel to Canada, you must apply online
 
or to a Canadian visa office. The BC PNP does not provide letters of support for Temporary 
Resident Visa applications to conduct exploratory visits to B.C. 
 
3.1 (B) B.C.’s regions  
 
Each of B.C.’s regions offer different key industries, business opportunities, demographics, and 
lifestyle opportunities. We encourage you to explore B.C.’s regions to find the best community for 
your proposed business and your family’s settlement. 
 
• Economic regions in BC https://www.britishcolumbia.ca/about-british-columbia-
canada/regions/   
• L abour market regional profiles www.workbc.ca/Labour -Market-Industry/Regional-
Profiles.aspx   
• Op portunity in BC https://www.britishcolumbia.ca/industries/ 
 

PAGE 31
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  31 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This map is for information purposes only. Click here to view detailed reference maps.  

PAGE 32
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  32 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
3.1 (C) Online resources 
 
You many also want to explore the following online resources to learn more about our province: 
 
• Welcome BC: Learn about living, investing, working and studying in B.C. as an immigrant to 
Canada.  
• Small Business BC: This resource centre has information, products, services and support for 
entrepreneurs at every stage of business development. 
• Trade and Invest BC: Learn about the many opportunities to invest in high-growth 
businesses, discover B.C.’s innovation clusters, connect with B.C’s businesses and 
communities, and explore B.C.’s unique lifestyle. 
• Start Your Business: A detailed guide on how to establish a business in B.C. as well as 
information you may want to consider before you develop your business concept. 
• Hello BC: British Columbia’s official tourist website, with suggestions on things to see and 
do, places to stay and information on how to get around. 
• BC Economic Development Association (BCEDA): Learn more about the role of economic 
development in the regions. You may refer to the directory of BCEDA members for specific 
industry information for a particular B.C. community. 
• You may also refer to the Business Improvement Association of BC website, and the BC 
Chamber of Commerce website. 
 
3.1 (D) Purchasing an existing business (if applicable)  
 
British Columbia, along with many parts of the world, is facing the demographic challenge of an 
aging population. There are many business owners in B.C. who are considering retirement but 
who may not have succession plans in place for entrepreneurs to take over their businesses. The 
EI – Base stream is an option for foreign entrepreneurs who want to purchase and improve 
existing businesses in B.C., which may also assist in providing business succession opportunities 
for these retiring business owners. 
 
You can find resources related to purchasing a business in British Columbia on the following 
webpage: Venture Connect
. Please note: the BC PNP does not pre-approve or endorse any 
business proposal. 
 
If you are interested in purchasing an existing business in British Columbia, you must conduct 
your own due diligence to determine whether the business meets eligibility requirements. The BC 
PNP discourages potential registrants or applicants from making any investments or financial 
commitments prior to signing a performance agreement
 with the BC PNP and obtaining a valid 
work permit from IRCC. Any investment made before you obtain a valid work permit is solely at 
your own risk. The BC PNP does not guarantee that your registration will be selected or that your 
application will be approved.   

PAGE 33
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  33 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.2. EI – Base: Registering with the BC PNP 
 
3.2 (A) Registration Overview  
3.2 (B) Creating your Profile 
3.2 (C) Completing the Registration 
3.2 (D) Submitting your Registration 
3.2 (E) Registration Scoring 
3.2 (F) Qualified Pool 
3.2 (G) Invitation to Apply  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The BCPNP Online
 registration system is an online registration process that is the first step to 
immigrating to British Columbia as an immigrant entrepreneur. As it is a points-based system, 
you will receive a score based on the information you provide.  
 
Your score will determine whether you will receive an invitation to apply
 under the Entrepreneur 
Immigration – Base stream. 
  
The BC PNP reserves the right to make changes to the BCPNP Online registration system without 
prior notice, including changes to the score grids, the minimum total required in each section, the 
expiry of registrations in the qualified pool, and the number and frequency of registrants invited 
to apply.  
 
Please check our website
 to ensure you are using the most up-to-date version of this guide. 
 
3.2 (A) Registration Overview 
 
Please carefully review the EI – Base requirements before completing your registration.  
 
A non-refundable registration fee
 will be charged at the time of registration submission. 
Submitting a registration is not a guarantee that you will be invited to apply.  
 
Registrants may only have one active BC PNP registration or application at any given time.  
 
The BC PNP reserves the right to limit the number of registrations that will be accepted in all 
Entrepreneur Immigration streams.  
 
Registrations are typically scored within six weeks of submission.  

PAGE 34
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  34 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
3.2 (B) Creating your Profile  
 
Before you can register, you must create a profile with BCPNP Online. This includes your personal 
email and home address, telephone number and passport information as well as security 
questions and password. You will receive an email from the BC PNP asking you to confirm your 
email address and password.  
 
The BC PNP can only provide specific information about your registration and/or application if 
your email address was authorized in your BCPNP Online profile. 
 
You are responsible for updating your contact information in your profile and ensuring that it is 
current and up to date. You should ensure that it remains current for as long as you continue to 
have an active registration or application with the BC PNP, so that you will receive any important 
messages from program staff. If you are nominated, you should continue to keep the BC PNP 
updated until IRCC has concluded your application for permanent residence. 
 
Once you have completed your profile, click on the Entrepreneur Immigration button to continue 
the registration process, and then click on the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base button. 
  
The BC PNP requires that the email address in your BCPNP Online Profile be your personal 
email address. This is to ensure you receive all correspondence relevant to your file. 
 
3.2 (C) Completing the Registration 
 
When you select the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream, you will be directed to My Dashboard, 
where you can complete your registration. You must provide information in all sections, which are 
listed as tabs across the top of My Dashboard.  
 
You can copy and paste from another program into text fields. Tables that require numbers will 
automatically calculate totals. The system will save your information when you click on any tab 
and when you click the Next or Previous buttons. 
 
Tips and information 
 
• You do not need to complete the registration in one session. You may return to your 
registration as often as needed. Inactive profiles and registrations will be deleted after 30 
days. 
• If you do not meet the minimum eligibility score, you will be directed to My Dashboard. Any 
sections where you did not meet the minimum score or sections where there was an error 
will be highlighted in red. You may return to those sections and correct any errors. 
• To avoid lost data due to system time-out or network connection issues, the BC PNP 
recommends that you compose your business concept in local word processing software 
and then paste the text into the browser field. 

PAGE 35
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  35 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• Once you have paid the fee and submitted your registration, you will not be able to make 
changes or modify any information in your registration.  
 
3.2 (D) Submitting your Registration 
 
 
Before you can submit your registration, you must upload clear scanned copies of: 
 
• biographical page (and signature page) of your current passport  
• current photograph  
• use of a representative form, if applicable  
• Language test certificate, if claiming points for language ability ⁺ 
 
 
Biographical page of passport: You must provide a clear, scanned copy of the 
biographical page of your current passport, as a PDF file. The biographical page is the 
page in the passport with the name, photo, passport/travel document number, issue 
date, expiration date, and signature. 
 
Current photograph: You must provide one passport style photograph taken within the 
last six months. Please attach the photograph as a PDF or JPG file. Spouses/common-law 
partners and dependants do not need to submit photographs. A guarantor is not 
required. 
 
Use of a representative form: if you are using the services of an immigration 
representative, you must upload a scanned copy of the use of a representative form 
available on our website
. The form must be current and signed by both you and the 
representative within six months before you submit your registration. For more 
information about using a representative, please refer to the Use of a Representative 
section. 
 
⁺ Valid language test result: If you are claiming language scores of CLB 4 or higher, 
submit a clear, scanned copy of the IELTS test results form, the CELPIP official score 
report or TEF as a PDF file. Note that the BC PNP may request an original copy of the test 
results if needed. 
 
After you have uploaded the required documents, you must complete the submit tab, which 
contains the declaration and confirmation for you and your spouse. When you select Submit this 
registration form, the system will calculate your section scores, based on the information you 
provided. The business concept section
 will be scored separately by the BC PNP within six weeks.  
 
If your scores in each section meet the minimum eligibility scores, you will be directed to the 
electronic payment system to pay the non-refundable registration fee.  
 

PAGE 36
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  36 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Your registration will only be submitted to the BC PNP after you have paid the registration fee. 
You will receive a fee payment receipt and acknowledgment.  
 
After you complete your registration, please ensure that you have received a confirmation email 
that includes your BC PNP registration number. If you do not receive this email within 24 hours, 
please email the BC PNP at en.imm@gov.bc.ca
 for further instructions.  
 
The declaration in the online registration and application requires your consent and is the legal 
equivalent to your signature. As the registrant, you must ensure that you have read and 
understood the declaration.   
 
It is your responsibility to ensure that your email correspondence was successfully received by 
the BC PNP. The BC PNP recommends that you enable “delivery receipts” in your email program. 
 
It is your responsibility to check your spam or junk folders for email correspondence from the BC 
PNP.  
 
3.2 (E) Registration Scoring 
 
The BC PNP will verify the information you provide in your registration and may adjust your self-
declared score if necessary. The score grids in the EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide
 provide 
details of how your score will be calculated. 
   
Your registration will be assessed according to the program requirements applicable at the time 
that you submit your registration. 
 
The business concept section will be scored by the BC PNP, typically within six weeks of 
submission. The BC PNP will verify the scoring in all sections to finalize your registration score.  
 
Certain sections of the registration have minimum eligibility scores. You must meet the minimum 
scores in each section to be entered into the qualified pool.  
 
EI – Base Scoring Overview 
 Scoring Sections Points 
Self-declared 
Experience & Ownership 24 
Net Worth 12 
Total Personal Investment 20 
Jobs 12 
Development Region 12 
Adaptability 40 

PAGE 37
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  37 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Self-declared SUBTOTAL score 120 
Business 
concept 
Commercial Viability  30 
Transferability of Skills  15 
Economic Benefits 35 
Business concept SUBTOTAL score 80 
Maximum Score Available 200 
 
3.2 (F) Qualified Pool 
 
Upon completion of the registration scoring, you will receive an email from the BC PNP indicating 
your total score and whether you have met minimum requirements to be entered in the qualified 
pool. You will be able to view your registration score, including scores for each section, on BC PNP 
Online. 
 
Certain sections of the registration have minimum eligibility scores. Registrations that meet the 
total minimum points in every section will be entered into the qualified pool. The minimum score 
for the business concept section is 40. The minimum total score to be entered into the qualified 
pool is 115. 
 
Registrations in the qualified pool are valid for 180 days (approximately six months). If you are not 
invited to apply to the BC PNP within 180 days of qualifying, your registration will expire.  
 
If you are proposing a BC PNP co-registrant, the total score of the lowest-scoring registrant(s) will 
be applied to all co-registrants. 
 
3.2 (G) Invitation to Apply 
 
(i) Prioritization of Qualified Registrants in the Pool 
 
Periodically, the BC PNP will invite registrants from the qualified pool to apply.  
 
Information provided in the registrations will be used to rank, select and invite qualified pool 
candidates who are most likely to meet B.C.’s economic needs, based on one or more of the 
following attributes:  
 
• The initial ranking of the candidate’s registration score 
• The specific region in which a candidate proposes to establish a business 
• The population size of the community in which the candidate proposes to establish a 
business 
• Whether the proposed business is a start up or a purchase of an existing business 

PAGE 38
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  38 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• Whether the business proposal is aligned with identified priority business sectors 
 
(ii) Invitation to apply  
 
If you are invited to apply under EI – Base, you will receive an email notification including:  
o instructions on how to complete an EI – Base application  
o list of authorized accounting firms for the verification of your net worth 
o timelines for application submission 
 
You will have up to 120 days (approximately four months) from the date of invitation to 
submit a complete application. This allows you time to finalize your business plan and 
obtain a verification report of your net worth
 from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm.  
 
If you receive an invitation to apply, your registration will be removed from the qualified 
pool.  
 
If you select the ‘decline’ button on BC PNP Online, your invitation to apply will be declined 
and your registration and invitation will be cancelled. Your profile will remain active. You 
may submit a new registration at any time. However, re-registration does not guarantee 
another invitation to apply. Registration fees will not be refunded for users who decline an 
invitation to apply. 
 
The number and frequency of invitations to apply is based on annual nomination 
allocations and the BC PNP’s processing capacity to ensure timely processing of 
applications. 
 
It is important that your application remains consistent with the information provided in 
your registration. The BC PNP may refuse your application if the information in your 
application is materially different from your registration.  
 
Information about invitations to apply, including previous invitation dates, numbers of 
invitations issued,
 specific factors used to identify candidates who will receive invitations, and 
minimum required scores, are posted on the invitations to apply page of our website. 
 
Receiving an invitation to apply does not guarantee that your application will be approved. 
 
(iii) What if I am not invited to apply? 
 
Becoming a qualified registrants in the pool does not guarantee that you will be invited to 
apply. 
 
You may wish to improve your score by developing a new business concept, conducting 
more research into the business environment in B.C., or improving your adaptability and 
submitting a new registration.  
 

PAGE 39
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  39 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
You can only have one active registration at any one time. If you are submitting a new 
registration, you must first withdraw any registration currently in process. 
 
  

PAGE 40
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  40 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.3. EI – Base: Applying to the BC PNP 
 
3.3 (A) Net Worth Review 
3.3 (B) Submitting your Application 
3.3 (C) Application Processing Fee 
3.3 (D) Application Assessment  
3.3 (E) Interview 
3.3 (F) Performance Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 (A) Net Worth Review 
 
Before you can submit your application, you must obtain a verification report of your personal 
net worth from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm. 
 
(i) What is an “authorized accounting firm”? 
You must engage a BC PNP-authorized professional accounting firm to verify your total 
personal net worth and accumulation of funds before you submit your application to the 
BC PNP. 
 
An authorized accounting firm is a professional chartered accounting services supplier, 
who is qualified by the BC PNP, that will complete a verification report of your total 
personal net worth.  
 
(ii) Where can I find the list of “authorized accounting firms”? 
The list of authorized accounting firms and instructions is included with the invitation to 
apply. 
 
(iii) How does it work? 
(a) You must have received an invitation to apply before you engage an authorized 
accounting firm. 
 
(b) You must enter into an agreement with an authorized accounting firm as soon as 
possible to complete a review of your total personal net worth. You are responsible 
for all costs associated with this service. 
 
(c) You must declare all of your personal net worth and provide supporting documents 
to the authorized accounting firm. Your personal net worth includes the net worth 
of your spouse or common-law partner, and dependent children, if applicable. 
 

PAGE 41
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  41 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
(d) The authorized accounting firm will review your net worth claims and your 
accumulation of funds through an analysis of your supporting financial 
documentation. The authorized accounting firm will produce a verification report of 
your total personal net worth and its legal accumulation. The report will outline the 
amount that is verifiable, and whether there are any issues that may require further 
investigation by the BC PNP. The authorized accounting firm may contact you to 
request additional information. 
 
(e) When the review is complete, the authorized accounting firm will send you and the 
BC PNP a copy of the net worth verification report. You will submit your copy to the 
BC PNP as an upload. 
 
   
(iv) What will I need to provide? 
 
You must provide the authorized accounting firm with: 
o a completed IRCC Schedule 4A Personal Net Worth form
, and 
o the Section J - Accumulation of Wealth Narrative from the Schedule 4A form 
o all supporting documentation identified in the Entrepreneur Immigration 
Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
 
 
You are responsible to provide a complete account of your personal net worth and source 
of funds.  
 
All documents not in English must include copies of certified translations. The copy of the 
document in the original language and the translation must both be notarized. 
 
Failure to declare your total personal net worth may result in the refusal of your 
application. 
 
Failure to provide satisfactory evidence to verify your net worth and source of funds may 
result in the refusal of your application. 
 
(v) What are the details? 
The cost of obtaining a verification report will depend on which authorized accounting firm 
you choose, and the extent and complexity of your net worth. 
 
The amount of time it takes to evaluate your financial documentation and prepare a 
verification report will vary. However, the authorized accounting firm may take up to 60 
days to complete a verification report. Various factors can affect the timing, such as the 
volume of financial documentation you provide and the processing capacity of the 
authorized accounting firm. 
 

PAGE 42
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  42 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
The net worth verification report is valid for 12 months from the date of issuance by the 
authorized accounting firm. 
 
The verification report will be used as part of the BC PNP application assessment process.  
 
Notwithstanding the conclusions of the net worth verification report, the BC PNP has sole 
discretion and responsibility to assess your BC PNP application and may request additional 
information, supporting documentation or clarification.  
 
Do not engage an authorized accounting firm until you have received your invitation to apply 
from the BC PNP.  
 
3.3 (B) Submitting your Application 
 
You will have up to 120 days (approximately four months) from the date you are invited to apply 
to submit a complete application, including a verification report of your net worth, all supporting 
documents, and a comprehensive business plan. 
 
Your application must be submitted through BC PNP Online (refer to your Invitation to Apply and 
to BC PNP Online for instructions). A maximum of 50 attachments can be uploaded to your 
application. Attachments cannot exceed 3MB each. Reduce your file sizes and merge files 
according to type of document. 
  
For more information on submitting your application, including a Business Plan Guide, refer to 
the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
 
Your business plan must demonstrate: 
 
• the proposed business is consistent with your registration business concept; and 
• potential for commercial viability under your ownership, including a market entry strategy 
to show how your proposed business will be successful in British Columbia.   
 
If you plan to purchase an existing business, you must also be able to demonstrate:  
 
• how the business will grow and expand under your management; 
• that the business is a going concern (i.e. the business is in operation, is not in receivership 
at the time of purchase, and is sustainable for the foreseeable future); and 
• that the business will generate a profit and can sustain the expanded workforce. 
 
The BC PNP may refuse your application if the information in your application is materially 
different from what you submitted in your registration.  
 
3.3 (C) Application Processing Fee 
 

PAGE 43
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  43 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
A non-refundable application fee will be charged at the time of application submission. 
  
3.3 (D) Application Assessment 
 
After a review of your application, the BC PNP may have concerns about its content.  If that 
happens, the BC PNP will offer you an opportunity to respond to those concerns. After 
considering your response, the BC PNP may refuse your application. Alternatively, you may be 
invited to continue in the assessment process, even if the BC PNP’s concerns have not yet been 
fully resolved. Please note that any specific concerns discussed in this part of the process may 
continue to be raised as you move forward to subsequent steps. 
 
Throughout the assessment of your BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration application, your business 
plan must be materially consistent with your registration. If a finding of material difference is 
made by a Program Advisor, your application may be refused. 
 
A failure to provide a timely and satisfactory response to all concerns raised may result in refusal 
of your application. 
 
Your application may be refused if the BC PNP determines you made a misrepresentation
, which 
can include providing false or misleading information or concealing relevant information about 
your application including during your interview. 
 
3.3 (E) Interview 
 
If requested by the BC PNP, you will be required to attend an interview. In the interview, you will 
be expected to describe your business/work experience and answer in-depth questions about 
your application. 
 
The interview will also be an opportunity to address any concerns that are raised. 
 
A decision on your application will be based on the information you provide up to and during your 
interview. At the discretion of the BC PNP, you may be asked to submit additional information 
after your interview if it is needed to finalize a decision on your application. The BC PNP will not 
accept new or additional information submitted after your interview unless it has been requested. 
 
Interviews are conducted in English only. If you are unable to communicate in English, you 
must obtain the services of a certified court interpreter. This is to ensure you will be able to clearly 
communicate to BC PNP program staff. You must submit a use of an interpreter form
 with a copy 
of the interpreter’s certification a minimum of ten days prior to your scheduled interview.  
 
A certified court interpreter is a member of the 
Society of Translators and Interpreters of BC 
(STIBC) or a society belonging to the Canadian Translators, Terminologists and Interpreters 
Council (CTTIC).  
 

PAGE 44
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  44 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
The interpreter provides direct interpretation during the interview and will not assist you to 
respond to questions in any way other than direct interpretation of questions and answers. 
Your spouse or common-law partner and/or your authorized immigration representative, if 
applicable, may attend the interview in an observer capacity. 
 
No one else is permitted to be present during the interview. BC PNP co-applicants will be 
interviewed separately (if applicable). 
 
Attending an interview does not guarantee that your application will be approved. 
 
3.3 (F)  Performance Agreement 
 
You will be required to sign a performance agreement before your application is approved. 
The performance agreement outlines the terms and conditions you must meet to be considered 
for nomination.  
 
Performance agreements are unique to each applicant and are based on the information 
provided in the application, business plan, and during the interview. You must immediately 
inform the BC PNP of any changes in your situation that might affect your ability to meet the 
conditions of your performance agreement. 
 
The performance agreement includes:  
 
• type of business you will own and operate and its location 
• eligible investment amounts  
• the number and type of positions to be created for Canadians or permanent residents 
• active management requirement 
• residency requirements 
• timeframes within which you must meet these requirements 
 
Important: Failure to meet the terms and conditions of your signed performance agreement 
within the timeframes may result in a refusal at the nomination stage
. 
 
Please note that the performance agreement does not replace any of the normal permits or 
licences that you are required to obtain to run a business in British Columbia. It is your 
responsibility to ensure that you obtain any required licences from Provincial or municipal 
authorities. 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 45
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  45 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.4. EI – Base: Business Establishment 
 
3.4 (A) Arrival 
3.4 (B) Building your Business in B.C. 
3.4 (C) Work Permit Extensions After Arrival 
3.4 (D) Post-Arrival Progress Check-In 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Once you have signed a performance agreement, the BC PNP will issue you a letter of 
confirmation (i.e. work permit support letter), which will allow you to apply to IRCC
 for a work 
permit. This permit will enable you and your dependants to move to B.C. so you can start 
implementing your business plan. The letter of confirmation is valid for 90 days (approximately 
three months).  
  
A work permit is the official document issued by the Government of Canada that allows a foreign 
national to work legally on a temporary basis in Canada. The length of the temporary work permit 
may vary at the discretion of IRCC, but is usually two years. 
 
You must apply for your work permit prior to the expiry date on your letter of confirmation. Your 
spouse or common-law partner will be eligible to apply for an open work permit, and your 
dependent child(ren) will be eligible for study permits to attend elementary or secondary school 
(if applicable). 
 
At its discretion, the BC PNP may issue a maximum of two letters of confirmation. 
In general, the 
BC PNP will issue such a letter if you have less than six months left on your current work permit and 
you are able to demonstrate that you are making progress on establishing your business. 
 
3.4 (A) Arrival 
 
After you sign your performance agreement, you must arrive in B.C. with your valid work permit 
within 365 days (12 months) from the date of your letter of confirmation. The date you arrive in 
Canada and are issued your work permit (the “date issued” on your Government of Canada work 
permit) is your “Commencement Date” for purposes of your performance agreement. Any 
subsequent milestones mentioned in your performance agreement are calculated from that date, 
such as due dates for the Arrival Report, the Post-Arrival Progress Check In, and the Final Report. 
 
If you do not arrive in B.C. within the 365-day period from the date of your letter of confirmation, 
your BC PNP application may be closed and no further immigration support from the province 
will be provided. 

PAGE 46
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  46 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You must submit an arrival report to the BC PNP within 60 days of arriving in B.C. with your valid 
work permit, or, from the date your performance agreement was signed, whichever is later. The 
arrival report provides information such as your updated contact information in B.C., your work 
permit, and whether you transferred the requisite funds into a financial institution in B.C. Your 
arrival report must be submitted through My Dashboard. 
 
Refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide available on the BC PNP website
 for 
more information. 
 
3.4 (B) Building your Business in B.C. 
 
Once you arrive in B.C. with your valid work permit, you will have up to 610 days (approximately 
20 months) to implement your business plan, actively manage your business, and satisfy the 
terms and conditions of your signed performance agreement. 
 
You are not permitted to vary any terms of the performance agreement. If you believe that you 
will not be able to meet the terms of the performance agreement, you must contact our office 
with a detailed explanation of the difficulties you are experiencing.
  
  
3.4 (C) Work Permit Extensions After Arrival 
 
If your work permit is due to expire within 180 days (approximately six months), you must contact 
en.imm@gov.bc.ca
 to request a work permit support letter, which will allow you to apply to IRCC 
to extend your work permit. The BC PNP may request evidence to confirm you are meeting the 
terms of your signed performance agreement. 
 
For information on the process for extending your work permit, refer to IRCC’s website
. 
 
3.4 (D) Post-Arrival Progress Check-In 
 
You are required to submit a post-arrival progress check -in no later than 365 days (12 months) 
following your work permit issuance date. This check-in gives you an opportunity to describe your 
involvement in the community and your progress in establishing your business.  
 
You must submit your post-arrival progress check-in through your BC PNP dashboard. You will be 
asked for  an update on business operations and progress towards meeting the terms of the 
Performance Agreement. More information on what to include in this report can be found in the 
Post-Arrival Guide. 
 
  

PAGE 47
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  47 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.5. EI – Base: Nomination 
 
3.5 (A) Final Report 
3.5 (B) Conditions of Nomination 
3.5 (C) Nomination 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To be approved for nomination, you must demonstrate you have met the terms and conditions of 
your performance agreement by submitting a final report to the BC PNP. 
 
3.5 (A) Final Report 
 
You must submit a final report to the BC PNP between 550 to 610 days (approximately 18 to 20 
months) after the issuance date of your valid work permit.  
  
The final report contains the form and the supporting documents that you must submit when you 
apply for nomination. Your final report must be submitted through BC PNP Online. A maximum 
of 50 attachments can be uploaded to your application. Attachments cannot exceed 3MB each. 
Reduce your file sizes and merge files according to type of document. 
 
In your final report, it is your responsibility to demonstrate to that you have met the terms and 
conditions described in your signed performance agreement. You must submit all required 
supporting documents, as outlined in the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide, available 
on the BC PNP website
. This includes financial statements for the business that have undergone 
review engagement by a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA). The CPA cannot have any real 
or perceived conflict of interest.   
  
The BC PNP will review and evaluate your final report, and may at its discretion, request 
additional information, conduct a site visit at your B.C. business and/or may require that you be 
available for an interview to obtain information about your business establishment and assess 
your eligibility for nomination. 
 
You must be physically present in Canada when the final report is submitted, and you must 
commit to remain in Canada until a nomination decision is rendered by a program advisor. 
 
If you fail to meet the terms and conditions of the performance agreement during the mandatory 
timeframes, your application may be refused at the nomination stage and your file will be closed.  
 

PAGE 48
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  48 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Your application may be refused if the BC PNP determines you made a misrepresentation, which 
can include providing false or misleading information or concealing relevant information about 
your application in your final report. 
 
You may only submit one final report.  
 
Please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide available on the BC PNP website 
for more information.  
 
3.5 (B) Conditions of Nomination 
 
If the BC PNP is satisfied that you have met your performance agreement terms and approves 
your nomination, you will be required to sign and submit a Conditions of Nomination declaration. 
This document sets out the conditions you must continue to meet while your federal 
application for permanent residence is in process. 
 
Failure to submit a declaration or to maintain the conditions it identifies may result in the BC PNP 
cancelling your nomination
. 
 
It is a condition of your nomination that you are not at any time:  
 
• prohibited from entering Canada 
• under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
• 
working in Canada without authorization 
• working in Canada for any business or employer other than the business for which you have 
been nominated 
 
 
It is a condition of your nomination that you must: 
 
• meet the conditions outlined in the signed declaration of nomination, including the agreed 
upon nature of business operations, business location, ownership percentage, job creation 
and/or job maintenance, residency requirement, as well as your ongoing and active 
management of the business 
• operate the business in a manner consistent with any required permit, licence, approval or 
other legal or regulatory requirements 
• maintain legal authorization to work in Canada, or if status has expired, be able to 
demonstrate that an application for restoration of status within the 90-day eligibility 
period has been submitted 
• comply with the requirements of Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations section 
87, and Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation subsection 6(g) 
 
To continue to effectively support your nomination as you apply for permanent residence, the BC 
PNP needs to ensure that it has accurate, up-to-date information about your circumstances. You 

PAGE 49
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  49 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
must inform the BC PNP if there is a change in your circumstances, including but not limited to: 
 
• change in business operations including ownership percentage change 
• change in business location 
• change in residential address 
• change in marital status or number of dependants 
• change in immigration status 
• refusal of a Work Permit and/or refusal of a Temporary Resident Visa 
• absence from B.C. for more than 3 weeks 
 
You must provide any information requested by the BC PNP to verify that conditions of 
nomination continue to be met. Failure to abide by the conditions of nomination, including failure 
to provide requested information, may result in the cancellation of your nomination. 
 
If the BC PNP determines that you provided false or misleading information to the BC PNP, before 
or after nomination, your nomination may be cancelled. 
 
3.5 (C) Nomination 
 
Once your signed Conditions of Nomination declaration has been received by the BC PNP, you will 
be issued a confirmation of nomination as a provincial nominee.  
 
The nomination will allow you and your eligible dependent family members to 
apply for 
permanent residence to IRCC u nder the Provincial Nominee Class.   
  
Please note that the age(s) of your dependent children, if any, are locked in for the purpose of 
federal immigration requirements at the time you submit your registration to the BC PNP. For 
more information on federal requirements regarding the age of dependent children, please see 
IRCC’s website
. 
  

PAGE 50
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Base: Step-by-Step Process  50 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence
3.6. EI – Base: After Nomination 
 
3.6 (A) Applying for Permanent Residence 
3.6 (B) Work Permit Extensions After Nomination 
 
 
 
 
 
3.6 (A) Applying for Permanent Residence 
 
As explained in the previous section, provincial nominees may apply for permanent residence to 
IRCC under the Provincial Nominee Class. Your confirmation of nomination is valid for 180 days 
(approximately six months). You must apply for permanent residence prior to the expiry date on 
your confirmation of nomination.  
 
IRCC will assess your application for permanent residence to ensure you meet the security and 
admissibility requirements, including medical and security checks, and that you continue to meet 
the requirements of the Provincial Nominee Class.  
 
If IRCC approves your application, you will be issued a permanent resident visa.  
 
For more information on applying for permanent residence and processing times, please visit 
IRCC’s website
. 
 
IMPORTANT: The BC PNP has no jurisdiction over whether or not IRCC will grant you permanent 
residence status in Canada. IRCC is the final decision-making authority on whether to issue you a 
permanent resident visa. 
 
IRCC may request additional information related to your application to ensure you continue to 
meet the conditions of nomination. 
 
3.6 (B) Work Permit Extensions After Nomination 
 
If you have already applied for permanent residence and your work permit is due to expire within 
180 days (approximately six months), the BC PNP will continue to provide work permit support as 
necessary.  
 
IRCC and/or the BC PNP may request evidence to confirm you continue to meet the conditions of 
your nomination.  
 
For more information about processing times for applying for a work permit, please visit 
IRCC’s 
website. 

PAGE 51
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  51 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
Part 4: General Program Information   
 
Sections: 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination or Application 
4.3. Request for Review 
4.4. Misrepresentation 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration  
4.6. Use of a Representative 
4.7. Definitions 
 
 
 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application  
 
You may withdraw your registration through BC PNP Online. Registration fees are non-
refundable. 
 
You may request a withdrawal of your application at any time by contacting the BC PNP at 
en.imm@gov.bc.ca
. Application fees are non-refundable. 
 
 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination 
 
The BC PNP may cancel your nomination if you are found to have misrepresented, if you do not 
meet conditions to which you have agreed, or if you no longer meet the eligibility criteria for 
either the EI-Base stream or for admissibility to Canada as a permanent resident. 
 
Your nomination may be cancelled under section 6 of the Provincial Immigration Programs Act if 
you have: 
 
• failed to comply with your 
conditions of nomination  
• failed to inform the BC PNP of a material change 
• obstructed or interfered with an inspection 
• retained a paid representative who is not qualified under the Act 
• provided false or misleading information 
 
The decision to cancel your nomination is not subject to review under section 7 of the Act. 
 
 
 

PAGE 52
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  52 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Examples where an approval or nomination may be cancelled include, but are not limited to: 
 
• information provided in your application to the BC PNP was false or misleading 
• the conditions of nomination under which you were nominated are no longer being met: 
o for example, you have not maintained the terms and conditions of your 
performance agreement, including but not limited to: business type, business 
location, ownership percentage, job creation (and maintenance), investment, as 
well as the ongoing and active management of the business 
• you are no longer residing in B.C. and are, therefore, no longer eligible for the BC PNP 
• you are in Canada and are out of status 
o if your status has expired, and you cannot demonstrate you have applied for 
restoration of status within the 90-day eligibility period, you will be considered out 
of status 
• you are working in Canada without authorization 
• you are under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
 
4.3. Request for Review 
 
If the BC PNP refuses an application (i.e. declined under section 4(1)(b) of the Act
), that person has 
a right to request a review of the decision.  
 
The purpose of a review is to determine whether the original decision was based on a fair 
process, and was within the range of decisions that could be reasonably supported by the 
evidence before the decision maker on the basis of the program criteria at the time of the 
decision. 
  
An applicant may only submit a request to review a decision issued by the BC PNP (i.e. not 
decisions issued by IRCC). The review process is limited to the following types of BC PNP 
decisions: 
 
• Entrepreneur Immigration registration disqualifications 
• Entrepreneur Immigration - stage 1 - application refusals 
• Entrepreneur Immigration - stage 2 - nomination refusals 
 
All requests for a review of a decision must be made within 30 calendar days of the date of the 
decision notice if the applicant is a resident in Canada, or 60 calendar days of the date of the 
decision notice if the applicant is not a resident in Canada. Please note that if you are currently 
living in Canada on a work permit, you are considered a resident of Canada and must submit your 
request for review within 30 calendar days. 
 
A person whose approval has been cancelled under section 6 of the Act is not entitled to have that 
decision reviewed by the BC PNP under the internal review process set out in section 7 of the Act. 
 
The request for review must: 

PAGE 53
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  53 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• be in writing and must be submitted through BCPNP Online 
• identify the grounds for the request 
• provide any information the BC PNP requests 
• pay the $500 non-refundable request for review fee 
 
A review is not a chance to submit new evidence or re-argue the evidence submitted in your 
application. Being unsatisfied with the final decision or a component of the decision is not 
sufficient grounds to vary or reverse a decision.  
 
Important information for those who choose to submit a request for review: 
• Only the applicant named on the decision notice may request a review. 
• The residential address provided in the online request for review form must be the 
applicant's current residential address. Forms that list the authorized representative's 
address will be considered incomplete and will not be processed. 
• The applicant is responsible for outlining how the decision was unreasonable or 
procedurally unfair. The review will be based on the information provided by the applicant. 
• The review will be conducted on the basis of the program criteria and evidence available at 
the time the application was declined. 
• You will receive an e-mail confirming your request has been received. 
 
Request for Review: Decision   
 
As soon after receiving a review request as it is practical to do so, the BC PNP must review the 
decision and either: 
 
• confirm the original decision, or 
• cancel the decision and re-evaluate the application  
 
Reviewed decisions are final decisions under the Act and Regulation. Subsequent requests for 
review, or requests for review submitted outside of the applicable 30- or 60-day periods, cannot 
be accepted. 
 
 
4.4. Misrepresentation 
 
Misrepresentation is the action of providing false or misleading information and/or withholding 
or concealing information where the withholding or concealing tends to create a false or 
misleading impression of the circumstances. It is one of the reasons why a registration or 
application may be refused or a nomination may be cancelled. 
 
If an applicant and/or representative withholds, conceals, and/or provides information or 
documentation that they knew or ought to have known to be false in support of a BC PNP 
application, they have misrepresented. 
 
 

PAGE 54
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  54 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Examples of misrepresentation include:  
 
• submitting false or misleading information in an application or registration;  
• failing to disclose information relevant to an application or registration;  
• communicating directly or indirectly, by any means, false or misleading information, or 
concealing relevant information, in any communication with the BC PNP or otherwise 
during the assessment processes for registrations and applications  
 
Registrations and applications will not be approved when the BC PNP determines that the 
information provided has been altered, overstated or is purposefully misleading for the purpose 
of meeting program requirements or for the purpose of obtaining a higher registration score.  
 
A finding of misrepresentation can be applied to a registrant or applicant. If you have been found 
to have misrepresented information in your registration or application, the BC PNP may refuse to 
accept a future registration or application from you for up to two years. 
 
 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration  
 
The BC PNP may refuse to accept an application or registration if: 
 
• an invitation for an application does not apply to that person 
• the person has retained a representative who does not meet the prescribed requirements, 
as described in section 4 of the Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation
 
• the applicant has had a previous approval cancelled by the BC PNP 
• the applicant has, in the two years immediately before the date of the application, been 
found by the BC PNP to have made a misrepresentation in a previous application
 
• the applicant has another active application with the BC PNP or an active Entrepreneur 
Immigration registration with the BC PNP.  
 
  

PAGE 55
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  55 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
4.6. Use of Representative  
 
4.6 (A) Declaration and Consent 
4.6 (B) Authorized Paid Representatives 
4.6 (C) Unpaid Representatives  
4.6 (D) Changing Representatives 
4.6 (E) Complaints Against a Representative 
 
You are not required to use a paid or unpaid representative – such as an immigration consultant 
or lawyer – to register and/or apply to the BC PNP. The program is designed for you to be able to 
complete the process on your own if you choose to do so. 
 
The BC PNP scores all registrations for each stream under their respective criteria, and, if invited 
to apply, the BC PNP assesses all applications equally, regardless of whether they were prepared 
with the assistance of a representative. Your registration or application will not receive special 
attention, faster processing, or a more favourable outcome if it is submitted using the services of 
a representative. 
 
Some applicants choose to use a representative to provide immigration advice or to assist with 
the process.  
 
You must disclose if you have received assistance in preparing your registration and/or 
application from a person who is compensated or receives a benefit as a result of such assistance. 
Failure to declare such assistance may result in the refusal of the application or disqualification of 
the registration.  
 
A representative is authorized to act on your behalf with the BC PNP. If you pay someone to act as 
your representative, they must meet the requirements for authorized representatives stated 
below in Section 4.6 (B).  
 
4.6 (A) Declaration and Consent 
 
By completing the BC PNP use of a representative form, you have authorized the individual 
named on the form to represent you and act on your behalf with the BC PNP. This may include 
representation throughout the registration, application and assessment processes, and 
communication with program staff as required, including disclosure of personal or confidential 
information to your representative.  
 
The legal declaration in the online registration or application is your legal signature. If your 
representative enters the registration or application on your behalf, you should review the 
information provided as you will be legally responsible for the accuracy of the form contents. 
  

PAGE 56
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  56 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
BCPNP Online uses your personal email as the unique personal identifier for your profile. The 
email and contact information provided in your profile will be associated with the application in 
the system and will be used by BC PNP staff for communication of final decisions.  
 
At its discretion, the BC PNP may contact you directly to request additional evidence or 
information to verify information in your registration and/or application, and to determine if you 
meet or continue to meet all program requirements.  
 
Privacy legislation restricts communication by the BC PNP to the applicant and authorized 
representative (if applicable) only.  The BC PNP will not communicate with any other unauthorized 
third-party regarding your registration or application.   
 
4.6 (B) Authorized Paid Representatives 
 
In selecting a paid immigration representative, the BC PNP highly recommends that applicants 
confirm with their potential representative that they are members in good standing with their 
professional organization. 
 
The Act and Regulation restricts payment for representation to groups defined by section 91(2) of 
the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act: 
 
• immigration consultants who are full members in good standing of the 
College of 
Immigration and Citizenship Consultants (CICC) 
 
• lawyers who are members in good standing of the Law Society of BC or another Canadian 
Law Society, the Nova Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du Quebec. 
 
4.6 (C) Unpaid Representatives 
 
You may use the services of an unpaid representative to act on your behalf. Unpaid 
representatives may include persons authorized under the Act and Regulation (see above), family 
members, friends, and members of non-governmental or religious organizations. 
 
The BC PNP only considers third-party representatives as unpaid if they do not charge fees or 
receive any other compensation or benefit for providing immigration advice or related services. 
 
If your unpaid representative is found by the Province to have charged fees for, or otherwise 
benefited from, acting as your Representative, the Province will revoke that person’s eligibility to 
serve as your Representative and may decline/cancel your application/approval to the BC PNP. 
 
If you select an unpaid representative who also provides immigration advice to others for a fee, 
the BC PNP recommends that you confirm that your potential representative is a member in good 
standing of one of the organizations listed in 4.6 (B), and that they have not been found by the BC 
PNP to have made a misrepresentation within the last two years. 

PAGE 57
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  57 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
4.6 (D) Changing Representatives 
 
If you change representatives or decide to no longer be represented, you must provide 
notification to the BC PNP. Failure to declare a change in representative may result in the refusal 
of your application. 
  
The BC PNP will communicate with the representative indicated in your profile. If you decide to 
change or remove your authorized representative, you must update this information in the My 
Representative tab on BC PNP Online. You are responsible for ensuring your profile is updated to 
reflect changes in representatives. 
 
You may only have one representative at any given time. If you wish to change your 
representative during the BC PNP registration and/or application process, you must update the 
information in the My Representative tab on BC PNP Online and submit another 
use of a 
representative form al lowing your new representative to represent you and allow the BC PNP to 
disclose information to them.  
  
Filing a new use of a representative form will automatically cancel any previously appointed 
representative. 
  
You may also update or remove your representative by contacting the BC PNP in writing. 
 
4.6 (E) Complaints Against a Representative  
 
If you have a complaint about your representative, whether paid or unpaid, you may submit a 
complaint to the appropriate regulatory body: 
 
• If your authorized representative is a member of CICC
 
• If your authorized representative is a member of the Law Society of British Columbia  
• If your authorized representative is a member of another Canadian Law Society, the Nova 
Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du Quebec, contact the applicable 
professional organization. 
 
You may wish to refer to the IRCC website
, which contains a lot of information about using 
immigration representatives. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 58
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information  58 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
4.7. Definitions 
 
“Act” means the Provincial Immigration Programs Act. 
 
“certified court interpreter” means: 
a. A certified court interpreter who holds a current and valid membership to the Society of 
Translators and Interpreters of BC (STIBC); 
b. A certified court interpreter who holds a current and valid membership to a society 
belonging to the Canadian Translators, Terminologists and Interpreters Council (CTTIC)
; or, 
c. A graduate from the Court Interpreting Certificate Program from Vancouver Community 
College (VCC). 
 
“Director” means the Director of Provincial Immigration Programs, or persons acting for the 
Director. 
 
“paid representative” means: 
a. A lawyer who is a member in good standing of the Law Society of BC or any 
other 
Canadian Law Society, the Nova Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du 
Quebec; or, 
b. An immigration consultant who is a full member in good standing of the College of 
Immigration and Citizenship Consultants. 
 
“Regulation” means the Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 59
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  59 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide 
 
Sections: 
5.1. Self-declared scores (120 points) 
5.1 (A) Experience & business ownership  
5.1 (B) Net worth 
5.1 (C) Total personal investment  
5.1 (D) Jobs created / maintained  
5.1 (E) Location based on B.C. Regional Districts  
5.1 (F) Adaptability factors  
5.2. Business Concept Scoring (80 points) 
5.1 (A) General Information 
5.1 (B) Commercial viability  
5.1 (C) Transferability of skills  
5.1 (D) Economic benefits  
 
This section provides detail about Entrepreneur Immigration – Base registration scoring, 
including complete point tables and useful information on how to fill out your registration. 
 
Many sections of the registration have minimum eligibility scores. You must meet the minimum 
eligibility scores in each section to be entered into the qualified pool. 
 
 Scoring Sections Points 
Self-declared 
Experience & Ownership 24 
Net Worth 12 
Total Personal Investment 20 
Jobs 12 
Development Region 12 
Adaptability 40 
Self-declared SUBTOTAL score 120 
Business 
concept 
Commercial Viability  30 
Transferability of Skills  15 
Economic Benefits 35 
Business concept SUBTOTAL score 80 
Maximum Score Available 200 
 

PAGE 60
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  60 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Your registration will be disqualified if: 
 
• you propose an ineligible business 
• you are proposing a partnership but have not identified all partners and their percent 
ownership 
• you are proposing to purchase an existing business but have not identified the target 
business, or if the business has not been in operation under the same owner for at least 60 
months (five years) 
• you do not meet the minimum point requirements for any section 
• you do not score at least 40 points in the business concept section 
• you do not receive an overall score of at least 115 points 
 
You may have to provide evidence of any and all claims if you receive an invitation to apply. For 
information on documents required at the application stage, please refer to the Entrepreneur 
Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
 
 
5.1. EI – Base: Self-declared Scores 
 
The BCPNP Online
 system will automatically assign points based on the information you provide.  
 
The BC PNP will verify this information and may adjust your score if necessary.   
 
 
5.1 (A) Experience and Business Ownership 
 
The EI – Base requirements section of this Guide
 provides detailed information on business and 
work experience requirements.  
 
You will receive points based on your business ownership and/or senior management work 
experience over the last 10 years.  
 
Please list all of your active business ownership and/or senior management work experience over 
the last 10 years. You will be assigned points in the experience section for periods that are not 
duplicated in time.  
 
You may not claim senior management experience if you worked at the same business of which 
you owned more than 10 per cent during the same period of time. 
 
You must indicate the industry sector code(s) based on your proposed NAICS code
 and the 
occupation code(s) from the NOC that best relate to your experience. 
 

PAGE 61
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  61 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
You must score at least 8 points to meet the minimum requirements for this section. 
 
Experience Total Duration Points 
Business owner-manager experience 
Less than 12 months 0 
12 to 24 months 4 
25 to 36 months 6 
37 to 48 months 12 
49 to 59 months 15 
60 months or more 20 
Senior manager work experience 
Less than 24 months 0 
25 to 48 months 4 
49 to 59 months 8 
60 months or more 12 
Maximum Score Available 20 
 
In addition, you will be awarded points if you have owned 100 per cent of a business for at least 
36 of the most recent 60 months (three of the most recent five years). The 100 per cent 
ownership of the business may be shared between you, your spouse or common-law partner, 
and/or your dependent child(ren).    
 
Ownership Amount Points 
Business ownership 
Less than 36 months (three years) of 100% 
business ownership in the past five years 0 
100% ownership of a business for at least 
36 of the last 60 months (three of the last 
five years) 
4 
Maximum Score Available 4 
 
  

PAGE 62
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  62 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.1 (B) Net Worth 
 
The EI – Base requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on personal net 
worth requirements. 
 
You will receive points based on your total personal net worth including that of your spouse or 
common-law partner, and/or your dependent children, if applicable. 
 
You will have to provide information on the following: 
 
• current assets:  
o bank deposits (e.g. personal chequing and savings accounts) 
o liquid investments (e.g. stocks, bonds, term deposits redeemable within 12 months) 
o other liquid assets (you must specify) 
 
• other assets: 
o real property (e.g. real estate, personal and commercial property ownership) 
o business ownership (i.e. current book value of the percent ownership of your 
business(es)) 
o pension funds and other assets (you must specify) 
 
• liabilities: 
o real property mortgage  
o other debts (e.g. personal loans, credit card debt) 
 
You must score at least 5 points to meet the minimum requirements for this section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Net Worth Points 
Your total current 
assets (cash and liquid 
funds) 
Less than $50,000 0 
$50,000 to $199,999 2 
$200,000 to $399,999 3 
$400,000 or more 4 
Your total personal net 
worth 
Less than $600,000 0 
$600,000 to $799,999 5 
$800,000 to $1,999,999 6 
$2,000,000 to $4,999,999 7 
$5,000,000 or more 8 
Maximum Score Available 12 

PAGE 63
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  63 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.1 (C) Total Personal Investment 
 
 
 
 
The EI – Base requirements section of this Guide
 provides detailed information on minimum 
investment requirements. 
 
You will receive points based on your proposed total personal investment for the business.  
 
The BCPNP Online
 registration form includes typical investment items as dropdown items. You 
may add investment item fields to the table by selecting other. 
 
You must score at least 8 points to meet the minimum requirement for this section.  
 
Total Personal Investment Points 
Less than $200,000 0 
$200,000 to $399,999 8 
$400,000 to $599,999 10 
$600,000 to $999,999 11 
$1,000,000 to $1,999,999 12 
$2,000,000 to $3,999,999 14 
$4,000,000 to $7,999,999 16 
$8,000,000 or more 20 
Maximum Score Available 20 
 
 
  

PAGE 64
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  64 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.1 (D) Jobs Created / Maintained 
 
The EI – Base requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on job creation 
requirements.  
 
You will receive points based on your proposed full-time equivalent (FTE) job creation, and FTE 
maintenance if you are purchasing an existing business. Your position and your spouse’s do not 
qualify as job creation/maintenance. 
 
You will be disqualified if you do not demonstrate that you will create at least one FTE job. 
 
If you are proposing to partner with a co-registrant, refer to the 
partnering with a co-registrant 
section. 
 
To identify the occupation and associated TEER, refer to the NOC
. The salary field represents the 
estimated annual salary of the position. 
 
You must score at least 4 points to meet the minimum requirement for this section.  
 
Total Proposed FTE Jobs Points 
Less than 1 job 0 
At least 1 job but less than 2 4 
At least 2 jobs but less than 3 5 
At least 3 jobs but less than 4 6 
At least 4 jobs but less than 5 7 
At least 5 jobs but less than 6 8 
At least 6 jobs but less than 7 9 
At least 7 jobs but less than 10 10 
At least 10 jobs but less than 20 11 
At least 20 jobs 12 
Maximum Score Available 12 
 
  

PAGE 65
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  65 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.1 (E) B.C. Development Region 
 
The BC PNP is focused on attracting investment to regional communities. In EI – Base 
registrations, a greater number of points are awarded for investments proposed in Development 
Regions outside of the Mainland/Southwest region.  
 
If you are proposing to establish a new business in a regional community in B.C., you may 
alternatively want to consider submitting a registration under the Entrepreneur Immigration – 
Regional.   
  
The applicant must work at the primary place of business and reside within 50 kilometres of the 
business.  
 
There is no minimum required score for this section. 
 
 
Location based on B.C. Development Region Points 
Mainland/Southwest 0 
Vancouver Island and Coast, Thompson/Okanagan 6 
Cariboo 10 
Northeast, Kootenay, Nechako, North Coast 12 
Maximum Score Available 12 
  

PAGE 66
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  66 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.1 (F) Adaptability Factors 
 
(i) Language Proficiency  
(ii) Education 
(iii) Previous Visit(s) to B.C.  
(iv) Age 
(v) Canadian Experience 
 
The BC PNP will consider adaptability factors and assign points for these factors as part of the 
registration score. These factors are not mandatory requirements of the BC PNP but are 
indicators to support the likelihood of your economic establishment in B.C.  
 
For information on required documents for a complete application, please refer to the 
Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
 
There is no minimum required score for this section.  
  
(i) Language Proficiency 
 
You are not required to demonstrate your language proficiency at the time of registration, 
however, being proficient in English and/or French is a mandatory requirement for 
nomination in the BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration – Base stream.  
 
If you claim points for language proficiency in your registration you will be required to submit 
a copy of valid language test results at the time of registration. 
 
For further details, refer to section 2.1(c).  
 
(ii) Education 
 
You will receive points for your highest level of completed education. If you are invited to 
apply, you will be required to provide evidence of your education, and you may be required to 
provide an education credential assessment.  
 
If your score for Education Level is 0, you will not be eligible to register unless you have at 
least 36 months (three years) of active management experience of a business that you had 
100 per cent ownership in the last 60 months (five years).  
  
 
 

PAGE 67
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  67 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
(iii) Previous Visit(s) to B.C. 
 
If you have previously visited British Columbia, you must provide details of your visit(s), 
including cities/municipalities visited, and the dates when you entered and exited B.C. If you 
are invited to apply, you will be required to provide evidence of your previous visit(s) to B.C. 
 
(iv) Age 
 
The BC PNP does not have any age requirements or age limits. However, your age will be 
assigned points in the BCPNP Online registration. 
 
(v) Canadian Experience 
 
The BC PNP will assign points if you possess any of the following experience obtained in 
Canada within the last 10 years:  
 
o Canadian, full-time work experience: You have legally worked in Canada for at least 12 
consecutive months in any occupation, which may include the active management of a 
business under your ownership in Canada. During this time, you must have had a 
valid Canadian work permit to claim this experience. 
 
o Full-time studies in Canada: You have legally studied in Canada under a secondary or 
post-secondary program for at least 12 consecutive months (including scheduled 
breaks such as winter and summer breaks and holidays – a minimum of two 
consecutive semesters). During this time, you must have had a valid Canadian study 
permit to claim this experience. 
 
Points will not be assigned for language training such as English as a second language.  
  

PAGE 68
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  68 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
  
Adaptability Factor Points 
Language proficiency 
None or minimal, similar to CLB 3 and below 0 
Basic understanding, similar to CLB 4 4 
Intermediate and advanced, similar to CLB 5 and 
above 6 
Education level 
Secondary school or less 0 
Associate degree 
4 Diploma / certificate (non-trades) 
Diploma / certificate (trades) 
Bachelor’s degree 
7 
Post-graduate diploma / certificate 
Master’s degree 
10 
Doctorate / PhD 
Age 
Less than 25 0 
25 – 34 4 
35 – 44 8 
45 – 54  6 
55 – 64 4 
65 or older 0 
Business exploratory 
visits 
No, or visited B.C. more than 3 years ago 0 
Yes, visited B.C. 1 – 3 years ago 3 
Yes, visited B.C. less than 1 year ago, but did not visit 
the Regional District of the proposed business 5 
Yes, visited the Regional District of the proposed 
business less than 1 year ago 8 
Canadian work 
experience, business 
experience, or studies 
from within Canada for at 
least 12 months 
No 0 
Yes 8 
Maximum Score Available 40 

PAGE 69
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  69 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.2. EI – Base: Business Concept Scoring 
 
5.2 (A) General information 
5.2 (B) Commercial Viability 
5.2 (C) Transferability of Skills 
5.2 (D) Economic Benefits 
 
You must propose to establish a new business or purchase and improve an existing business 
in B.C. The business concept of the registration is similar to an executive summary that provides 
high-level information about your proposed business plan. 
 
If you are invited to apply, you will be required to submit a comprehensive business plan as part 
of your application. 
 
5.2 (A) General Information 
 
You must answer questions and provide details of your business concept specific to your 
proposal. Your proposed business concept will be scored by the BC PNP.  
 
For all registrations, you will be asked to provide details of the following: 
 
• description of the business model and its operations: what will the business do and how 
will it do it? 
• description of the types of goods and/or services the business will provide 
• your proposed job title and duties, and how your qualifications relate to the proposed 
business 
• description of how your business will be commercially viable: what is your market entry 
strategy? 
• description and rationale for your staffing requirements 
 
In addition to the above, if you are purchasing an existing business, wholly or partially, you 
must: 
 
• identify and describe the target business, including staffing  
• summarize the company’s performance, with approximate annual revenue, and net profit 
from the past two years 
• provide a description and rationale of your improvement/expansion plan 
• comment on business history and financial health 
• explain how you established the value of the business 
 
 
Do not include general market research or statistics in your business concept. 

PAGE 70
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  70 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
In the business concept section, you will be also required to indicate whether you are proposing 
any of the following: 
 
• franchise business: 
If you are proposing to establish a franchise business, either a new franchise location or 
purchasing an existing one, you must provide details on the franchisor. In addition, you 
must identify any franchisor conditions or restrictions on approving you as a franchisee, 
and describe the franchisor's response to your request for a proposed new location. For 
more information on franchise businesses, please refer to the 
business requirements 
section. 
 
• partnership with local partner(s): 
If you are proposing to partner with a local or foreign businessperson or BC PNP co-
registrant, you must provide a rationale for the business partnership and describe your 
business relationship with each partner. You must identify the partner(s), their proposed 
ownership percentage, whether the local partner(s) will make any investment into the 
business, and what role, if any, the partner(s) will have in the business. 
 
• partnership with BC PNP co-registrant(s): 
If you are partnering with a BC PNP co-registrant
, each co-registrant must submit their 
registrations within 30 days of the earliest registration. Your registration will not be 
accepted if your co-registrant(s) submits a registration more than 30 days after your 
registration is received. 
 
For complete information on business requirements, including detailed explanations of factors 
within the business concept, please refer to the business requirements section of this Guide
. 
 
  

PAGE 71
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  71 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
You must score at least 40 points in the business concept section.  
 
Your business concept will be scored on the following factors: 
 
Business Concept Factors Points 
Commercial viability: 
(a) Business model 
(b) Market and products/services 
(c) Eligible personal investment 
(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
(e) Ownership percentage 
(f) Risk factors 
30 
Transferability of skills: 
(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
(b) Senior manager work experience only 
(c) Language ability 
15 
Economic benefits: 
(a) Key sectors & significant economic benefits 
(b) Jobs assessment 
(c) High-skilled jobs 
35 
Maximum Score Available 80 
 
  

PAGE 72
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  72 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 5.2 (B) Commercial Viability 
 
5.2 (B)(a) Business model 
5.2 (B)(b) Market and products/services 
5.2 (B)(c) Eligible personal investment 
5.2 (B)(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
5.2 (B)(e) Ownership percentage 
5.2 (B)(f) Risk factors 
 
The BC PNP will assess your business concept and assign points based on the commercial viability 
of your proposed business.  
 
Overall Commercial Viability Points 
Business model 10 
Market & products/services 4 
Eligible personal investment 4 
Assessment of proposed personal investment 6 
Ownership percentage 4 
Risk factors 2 
Maximum Score Available 30 
 
5.2 (B)(a) Business model 
 
You must describe how your proposed business will generate revenue and profit, and how the 
business will have the potential for sustained commercial success under your management. 
 
For the purchase of an existing business, including partnerships: 
 
• Expansion/improvement plan: You must identify how you will improve, upgrade and/or 
expand the existing business. This may include creating new employment, investing in 
improvements and/or upgrades to the business, introducing new products and/or 
services, etc. 
 
• Financial stability: You must be able to demonstrate that the business is a going concern 
(profitable), that it can sustain additional expenses and investments, how the business will 
generate additional profit, and how the workforce will be expanded. 
 
  

PAGE 73
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  73 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
You will receive points for your business model based on the following table: 
 
Business Model Points 
Unsatisfactory / Unclear 1 
Fair / Good 5 
Excellent 10 
Maximum Score Available 10 
 
The business model is assessed based on the following criteria: 
 
• An unsatisfactory/unclear business model (1 point) will be determined if any of the 
following are identified: 
 
o business model does not clearly identify and/or describe the business operation 
from start to finish 
o business model does not clearly identify the products and/or services being offered 
o proposed scale of business is not consistent with industry/regional norms 
o business concept does not provide details of applicant’s proposed role  
o business concept does not provide substantive information on local business 
partner and/or co-applicant  
o proposed co-registrants do not demonstrate a prior working/business relationship 
o if purchasing an existing business: the proposed expansion plan does not 
effectively address a plan to upgrade/improve or expand the existing business, or is 
ineligible 
o if purchasing an existing business: the proposed expansion plan relies primarily 
upon unsubstantiated investment and/or job creation and appears to be 
inconsistent with industry/regional norms 
 
• A fair/good business model (5 points) will be determined if all of the following are met: 
 
o business model is clearly identified and describes the business operation from start 
to finish 
o business model clearly identifies the products and/or services being offered 
o proposed scale of business is consistent with industry/regional norms 
o business concept provides substantive information on local business partner and/or 
co-applicant (if applicable) 
 
• An excellent business model (10 points) will be determined if, in addition to core 
requirements for fair/good, the business concept also meets at least 3 of the following 
factors: 
 

PAGE 74
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  74 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
o proposed investment and jobs plan are consistent with the business model (must 
score 6 points for assessment of investment and score 6 points for jobs 
assessment) 
o business model identifies a clear strategy to become commercially viable 
o business model’s operational plan is internally consistent 
o applicant’s proposed duties with the business are consistent with applicant’s 
experience 
 
5.2 (B)(b) Market and products/services: 
 
You must provide an effective market entry strategy to show how your proposed business will be 
successful in British Columbia. If you are planning to purchase an existing business, you must be 
able to demonstrate how the business will grow and expand under your management. 
 
You must describe the types of products and/or services that will be offered, or that are currently 
offered if you are purchasing an existing business. Describe the uniqueness of the product(s) 
and/or service(s). 
 
You will receive points for your market and products/services based on the following table:  
 
Market & Product Points 
Does not satisfactorily address any of the Market/Product factors 1 
Addresses at least one of the Market/Product factors, and is 
consistent with Business Model 4 
Maximum Score Available 4 
 
Scoring will be based on whether the registrant demonstrates at least 1 of 4 critical factors, 
which are consistent with the business model: 
 
• Competitive edge: the product/service offers distinction from its potential competitors. If 
local competitors offer the same or similar product/service, then it does not offer 
substantive distinction. 
 
• High-value: the proposed product/service will be a specialized product/service that is 
differentiated from generic, mid to low-value products/services. 
 
• New product/service: the product/service is “new to the market” or “new to the world”. The 
business concept should demonstrate that the product/service is not locally available. 
 
• Competitive analysis/market entry strategy: business concept provides a competitive 
analysis that identifies current/potential competitors, how to make the product/service 
unique or distinguishable, how to attract the target market, strengths and weaknesses of 

PAGE 75
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  75 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
current and potential competitors, and how the proposed business’s competitive 
advantage and how it will effectively enter the market. 
 
5.2 (B)(c) Eligible personal investment 
 
The BC PNP will determine the eligibility of your proposed investment and assign you points. For 
detailed information on eligible and ineligible investments, refer to the 
investment requirements 
section of the Guide. 
  
If you are proposing the purchase of an existing business, you must invest at least $50,000 
toward the improvement, upgrades, and/or expansion of the existing business (i.e. expansion 
investment) or your registration will be disqualified. 
This proposed investment must be made from your own personal funds. External financing, 
including mortgages and loans, will not be considered toward your personal investment. 
 
You must score at least 1 point to meet the minimum requirement for this section. 
 
You will receive points for your proposed eligible personal investment based on the following 
table:  
 
Eligible Personal Investment Points 
Less than $200,000 or less than $50,000 of eligible 
expansion investments 0 
$200,000 to $399,999 1 
$400,000 to $599,999 2 
$600,000 to $799,999 3 
$800,000 or more 4 
Maximum Score Available 4 
 
5.2 (B)(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
 
You must describe your proposed investments. The BC PNP will assess your proposed 
investments and assign you a score in your business concept based on whether the expenditure 
is deemed essential to establish and operate a new business or to purchase, improve and operate 
an existing business.  
 
Your proposed personal investment will also be considered against the type and scope of the 
proposed business, the market, the products/services, the business model, and the industry 
and/or local standards. 
 
 

PAGE 76
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  76 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Assessment of Proposed Personal Investment Points 
Investment proposal does not correspond to the type or scale of the business 0 
Investment proposal corresponds to the type and scale of the business 4 
Investment proposal corresponds to the type and scale of the business, the 
market, the proposed products and/or services, the business model, and the 
industry standard. 
6 
Maximum Score Available 6 
 
The assessment of proposed personal investment is based on the following criteria: 
 
• Unsubstantiated (0 points): the proposed investments are not substantiated, or appear 
overstated and/or unreasonable based on the type and scale of the business (and 
expansion plan, if applicable) 
 
• Substantiated (4 points): the investment appears to correspond to the type and scale of the 
business given the information provided. 
 
• Well-substantiated and researched (6 points): the proposed investments are detailed and 
substantiated in the business concept demonstrating that the registrant has conducted a 
significant amount of due diligence. The investment appears to correspond to the type and 
scale of the business as well as the market, the proposed products and/or services, the 
business model, and the industry standard. 
 
5.2 (B)(e) Ownership percentage 
 
You must demonstrate at least one of the following: 
 
• you will own at least one-third (33 1/3 per cent) of the business in B.C. 
 
•  alternatively, if your ownership is less than 33 1/3 per cent, you must invest a minimum of 
$1 million to not be disqualified. This investment must be an equity purchase. Please refer 
to the business requirements section of this guide.  
 
However, you will not receive points for ownership percentage unless you have a controlling 
interest (i.e. you own more than 50% of the business). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 77
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  77 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
You will receive points for ownership percentage based on the following table:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.2 (B)(f) Risk factors 
 
The BC PNP will consider the potential for any risk factors of your proposed business and your 
ability to address risks. 
 
You will receive points for risk factors based on the following table:  
 
Risk Factors Points 
• proposing external financing 
OR 
• proposing to invest more than 50% of your PNW 
OR 
• you are proposing to partner with a co-registrant 
0 
None of the above 2 
Maximum Score Available 2 
  
Ownership percentage Points 
100% ownership 4 
More than 50% and less than 100% 3 
50% ownership or less 0 
Maximum Score Available 4 

PAGE 78
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  78 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.2 (C) Transferability of Skills 
 
5.2 (C)(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
5.2 (C)(b) Senior manager work experience only 
 
Transferable skills are assessed by considering the similarity of the industry of your 
business/work experience to that of your proposed business in B.C.  
 
You will be assigned points for your transferable skills at the registration stage, and if you are 
invited to apply, the BC PNP will assess your transferable skills at the application stage. 
 
You will receive points based on your direct experience and/or experience in related industries 
for the last 10 years. 
 
• Direct experience is defined as experience gained in the same industry group, as defined 
by the first four digits of the proposed NAICS
 code. 
 
• Related experience is defined as experience gained in on the same economic subsector, 
as defined by the first three digits of the proposed NAICS code.  
 
To identify the industry sector, please refer to the NAICS
.  
 
The BC PNP will confirm the registrant’s entered NAICS code corresponds to the registrant’s 
industry experience.  
 
Definitions of active business owner-manager and senior manager are described in the 
personal requirements section of this Guide
. 
 
Transferability of Skills Points 
Business owner-manager experience only 15 
Senior manager work experience only 10 
Maximum Score Available 15 
 
If you have business ownership and senior management work experience, your score will be calculated 
by combining your business experience and your work experience with the following equation: 
 
(Total business experience only points) + (50 per cent of points calculated from work experience only)* 
 
* Unless your work experience only points are greater than the combined total. 
 
 

PAGE 79
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  79 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.2 (C)(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
 
How many months as an active owner-manager in a similar business over the last 10 years, 
based on NAICS. 
 
 
5.2 (C)(b) Senior manager work experience only 
 
How many months in a similar position as a senior manager over the last 10 years (without 
ownership or less than 10 per cent ownership), based on NAICS. 
 
Senior Manager Work Experience Only Points 
12+ months of experience in an unrelated industry 0 
12 months or less of direct experience or 12 to 36 months of related experience 2 
13 to 36 months of direct experience or 37+ months of related experience 4 
13 to 36 months of direct experience and 37+ months of related experience 6 
37 to 60 months of direct experience 8 
37 to 60 months of direct experience and 37+ months of related experience 9 
More than 60 months of direct experience 10 
Maximum Score Available 10 
 
Business Owner-Manager Experience  Points 
12+ months of experience in an unrelated industry 5 
12 months or less of direct experience or 12 to 36 months of related experience 7 
13 to 24 months of direct experience or 37+ months of related experience 9 
13 to 24 months of direct experience and 37+ months of related experience 10 
25 to 36 months of direct experience 11 
25 to 36 months of direct experience and 37+ months of related experience 12 
37 to 60 months of direct experience 13 
37 to 60 months of direct experience and 37+ months of related experience 14 
More than 60 months of direct experience 15 
Maximum Score Available 15 

PAGE 80
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  80 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
5.2 (D) Economic Benefits 
 
5.2 (D)(a) Key sectors and/or significant economic benefits 
5.2 (D)(b) Jobs assessment 
5.2 (D)(c) High-skilled jobs 
 
You will receive points based on the potential to add economic benefits to British Columbia. The 
BC PNP will review your registration and assign points for the following factors used to 
demonstrate the economic benefits of the proposed business in B.C. 
 
You must substantiate your proposed economic benefit factors. 
 
Overall Economic Benefit Points Points 
Key Sector & Significant Economic Benefit 23 
Jobs assessment 6 
High-skilled jobs (NOC TEER 0 or 1) 6 
Maximum Score Available 35 
 
5.2 (D)(a) Key sectors and/or significant economic benefits 
 
To qualify for additional key sector points, involvement with a key sector must be a core part of 
your proposed business plan. A minor or tangential involvement is not sufficient. The following 
key sectors are eligible:  
 
• Aerospace 
• Agriculture, Food & Beverage: food production and food processing 
• Clean Technology 
• Digital Media and Entertainment 
• Forestry: includes manufacturing of wood products 
• Information and Communications Technology 
• Life Sciences 
• Mining  
• Natural Gas  
 
Other significant economic benefits that the proposed business may demonstrate:  
 
• Proposing to purchase 100% of an existing business in British Columbia outside of Metro 
Vancouver to support succession planning 

PAGE 81
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  81 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
• Adopting new technology: the new technology must not already be in regular use in 
similar businesses in British Columbia 
• Employing innovative approaches to traditional businesses (e.g. more efficient processes) 
that are not already in regular use by similar businesses in B.C. 
• Increasing exports: manufacturing businesses that will engage in significant export 
activity. This definition does not include businesses that facilitate export/trade such as 
trading companies or agencies. 
• Readiness to commercialize a proprietary new technology on which R&D is complete 
• Indigenous Peoples and First Nations: partnering with First Nations communities for 
businesses that affect the First Nation community, and/or largely benefit First Nations 
communities and/or Indigenous peoples. Registrants must be able to provide evidence of 
significant interaction with Indigenous Peoples in British Columbia, such as a 
memorandum of understanding. 
• Providing products or services to an under-served local or regional market for which there 
is a demonstrated demand 
• Providing training and support services that facilitate the growth of the technology sector 
in British Columbia. 
 
Key Sector / Significant Economic Benefit Scoring Points 
Does not identify or substantiate any key sectors or any significant 
economic benefits 3  
Substantiates 1 key sector or 1 significant economic benefit 10 
Substantiates 1 key sector and 1 significant economic benefit 16 
Substantiates at least 1 key sector and at least 2 significant economic 
benefits 23 
Maximum Score Available 23 
 
5.2 (D)(b) Jobs assessment 
 
The BC PNP will assess your jobs plan based on the type and scope of the proposed business, the 
market, the proposed products and/or services, the business model, and the industry standard. 
 
You must score at least 1 point to meet the minimum requirement for this section. 
  

PAGE 82
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  82 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Jobs assessment Points 
The business concept does not support the creation of at least 1 FTE 
position 0 
Jobs plan does not correspond to the type and scale of the business 1 
Jobs plan corresponds to the type and scale of the business 6 
Maximum Score Available 6 
 
The jobs assessment is based on the following criteria: 
 
• Does not support minimum eligibility criteria (0 points): the jobs plan provides insufficient 
or incomplete information where the BC PNP cannot determine whether the business 
concept supports the creation of the minimum FTE requirement. Or, the jobs plan only 
proposes the creation of occupations that are typically contracted out or do not meet the 
minimum 30 hours per week (or 1,560 hours per year). 
 
• Unsubstantiated (1 point): the proposed job creation plan is not substantiated, or appears 
overstated and/or unreasonable based on the type and scale of the business (and 
expansion plan, if applicable), and/or industry norms. If purchasing an existing business, 
the job creation plan is inconsistent with the proposed expansion plan and/or historical 
financial information. 
 
• Substantiated (6 points): the jobs plan appears consistent with the business model and 
corresponds to the type and scale of the business.  Satisfactory information provided.    
 
5.2 (D)(c) High-skilled jobs 
 
You will receive points for proposing to create or maintain jobs in high-skilled occupations as 
defined as NOC TEER 0 or 1
. 
 
High-skilled jobs (NOC TEER 0 or 1) Points 
Business concept does not propose or substantiate hiring any  
high-skilled positions 0 
Business concept substantiates the creation/maintenance of one high-
skilled position 4 
Business concept substantiates the creation/maintenance of two or 
more high-skilled positions 6 
Maximum Score Available 6 
 
The high-skilled jobs assessment is based on the following criteria: 
 
• The NOC code and whether it corresponds to the job title and proposed duties. 

PAGE 83
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  83 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
• The proposed occupations are substantiated and are typically employed as full-time 
positions within the same industry and/or business scale. 
 
• The proposed wages appear to be consistent with industry norms (for this stage of the 
business life cycle). 
 
 
  

PAGE 84
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  84 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 85
BC PNP EI – Base Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Base Registration Scoring Guide  85 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BC Provincial Nominee Program 
450-605 Robson Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 5J3 
Canada 
 
E-mail: En.Imm@gov.bc.ca 
Website: www.WelcomeBC.ca/PNP 
 
 
 
 
 
 