
PAGE 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
British Columbia 
Provincial Nominee Program 
Entrepreneur Immigration 
Regional  
Program Guide 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. 

PAGE 2
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide |  2 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
 
This guide is designed to help you understand and navigate the Entrepreneur 
Immigration – Regional stream, including the registration and application 
processes. If you require more information, we are here to help: 
 
 
For more information, please contact: 
 
BC Provincial Nominee Program 
450-605 Robson Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 5J3 
Canada 
 
E-mail: En.Imm@gov.bc.ca 
Website: www.WelcomeBC.ca/PNP 
The offices of the BC Provincial Nominee Program are 
located on the traditional territory of the Squamish, 
Musqueam, and Tsleil-Waututh peoples, who have been 
stewards of this area for many generations. 
In the event of a discrepancy between the BC PNP website and the Entrepreneur 
Immigration – Regional Program Guide, the information in the program guide shall be 
considered correct. Please check our website regularly to ensure you are using the most 
up-to-date version of the applicable program guide. 
Beware of Immigration Fraud 
We encourage you to protect yourself from immigration fraud. 
Learn more about protecting yourself from fraud. 
 

PAGE 3
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide |  3 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Table of Contents  
 
 
Part 1: Introduction & Overview ................................................................................. 5 
1.1. About the EI – Regional Program Guide ...............................................................................................6 
1.2. Streams at a Glance ...................................................................................................................................7 
1.3. EI – Regional Process at a Glance ...........................................................................................................8 
Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements ............................................................................. 9 
2.1. EI – Regional: General Nomination Requirements ......................................................................... 11 
2.2. EI – Regional: Personal Requirements ............................................................................................... 12 
2.3. EI – Regional: Business Requirements ............................................................................................... 17 
2.4 EI – Regional: Minimum Investment Requirements ....................................................................... 21 
2.5. EI – Regional: Job Requirements .......................................................................................................... 24 
Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process ............................................................... 26 
3.1. EI – Regional: Preparation Before You Register .............................................................................. 27 
3.2. EI – Regional: Registering with the BC PNP ...................................................................................... 33 
3.3. EI – Regional: Applying to the BC PNP ............................................................................................... 40 
3.4. EI – Regional: Business Establishment ............................................................................................... 45 
3.5. EI – Regional: Nomination ..................................................................................................................... 48 
3.6. EI – Regional: After Nomination .......................................................................................................... 51 
Part 4: General Program Information ....................................................................... 52 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application ................................................................................ 52 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination ......................................................................................... 52 
4.3. Request for Review ................................................................................................................................. 53 
4.4. Misrepresentation ................................................................................................................................... 55 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration ............................................................................ 55 
4.6. Use of a Representative ......................................................................................................................... 56 
4.7. Definitions ................................................................................................................................................. 59 
Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide ...................................................... 59 
5.1. EI – Regional: Self-declared scores ..................................................................................................... 61 
 65 
5.2. EI – Regional: Business Concept Scoring ........................................................................................... 70 
 

PAGE 4
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide |  4 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Updates to this Edition  
 
The following list outlines the updates made to this edition of the Entrepreneur Immigration – 
Regional Program Guide: 
 
May 27, 2024:  
 
1. Removed references to “pilot” as the Regional stream is now an ongoing part of the BC PNP. 
2. Minor clarifications and corrections to language and broken links throughout. 
 
  

PAGE 5
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview 5 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Part 1: Introduction & Overview 
 
Sections: 
1.1. About the EI – Regional Program Guide 
1.2. Streams at a glance  
1.3. Process at a glance 
 
 
The BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration stream is for experienced entrepreneurs who are 
ready to invest in and actively manage a business in B.C. 
 
This guide will help you understand and get started on a path towards permanent residency. If 
approved as a provincial nominee, you and your dependent family members can apply to 
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) to become permanent residents of Canada 
in the Provincial Nominee class. Read this guide carefully before you register and apply online.  
 
You may choose from the following Entrepreneur Immigration streams:  
 
• Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional: working with regional communities, this stream 
is intended to attract entrepreneurs to participating regional communities to establish 
new businesses that align with the communities’ economic development priorities. 
 
• Entrepreneur Immigration – Base: intended for experienced entrepreneurs who intend 
to establish new businesses or take over and grow existing businesses in B.C. For more 
information, refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration – Base Program Guide available on 
the BC PNP website.  
 
• Strategic Projects: for foreign corporations that intend to establish a subsidiary or branch 
office in B.C. that strategically aligns with their core business. For more information, refer 
to the 
BC PNP website. 
 
 
  

PAGE 6
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview 6 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1.1. About the EI – Regional Program Guide 
 
The BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional Program Guide is designed to help you 
understand and navigate the EI – Regional stream including the registration and application 
processes. It provides complete and comprehensive information about the EI – Regional eligibility 
requirements.  
 
This guide also provides details on how to register with the BCPNP Online system and outlines 
the information you will need to provide. For more information on required documents for the 
application, please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC 
PNP website. 
 
Please check our website regularly to ensure you are using the most up-to-date version of the 
Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional Program Guide. If you require more information, please 
contact us at en.imm@gov.bc.ca.  
 
If you have already registered or applied to one of the Entrepreneur Immigration streams, your 
registration or your application will be scored or assessed against criteria outlined in the 
applicable Entrepreneur Immigration Program Guide that was in effect during the time of 
registration.   
 
Application process graphics are used throughout this guide. They are intended to highlight 
stages of the process that are relevant to each section of the guide. 
 
All dollar figures in this guide are expressed in Canadian dollars
. 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 7
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview 7 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1.2. Streams at a Glance 
 
 
 
EI – Base EI – Regional 
Experience 
Within last 10 years: Within last 5 years: 
At least either 3+ years of experience as a business owner-manager, OR, 4+ years of experience as 
a senior manager, OR, a combination of 1+ year of experience as a business owner-manager and 
2+ years of experience as a senior manager. 
Net worth At least $600,000 At least $300,000 
Education Obtained a post-secondary credential, OR, experience as an active business owner-manager for at 
least 36 of the last 60 months with 100% ownership in the business. 
Business proposal 
You must submit a business proposal to 
establish a new business or purchase of an 
existing business in B.C. 
You must submit a business proposal to 
establish a new business in B.C. and be referred 
by an enrolled community. 
Ownership percentage At least one-third (33.33%) At least 51% 
Investment Minimum $200,000 Minimum $100,000 
Job creation Must create at least one full-time equivalent job for a Canadian citizen or permanent resident of 
Canada 
Location Anywhere in British Columbia Participating communities 
Exploratory visit 
required? No, but strongly recommended Yes. You must engage and visit an enrolled 
community for support before registering. 
Language requirement? 
Minimum of CLB 4 equivalent in English or 
French. Must submit a copy of valid language 
proficiency test results at final report (if not 
previously submitted). 
Minimum of CLB 4 equivalent in English or 
French. Must submit copy of valid language 
proficiency test at registration. 
Partner with BC PNP co-
registrant allowed? Yes No 
Partner with a local 
business/person 
allowed? 
Yes 
Registration scores 
Total 200 points (120 points for self-declared 
section; 80 points for business concept). Must 
score minimum of 40 points in business 
concept section. Total score must be at least 
115 points to qualify. 
Total 200 points (140 points for self-declared 
section; 60 points for business concept). No 
minimum business concept score. Total score 
must be at least 105 points to qualify. 
Registration timeframe Registrations are scored within 6 weeks Registrations are scored within 4 weeks 
Net worth verification Yes, you must obtain a net worth verification report if you are invited to apply. 
Application timeframe Application decisions are typically made within 4 months. 
Interview required for 
approval? Yes 
Minimum amount of 
time to submit a final 
report 
18 months after issuance of a work permit 12 months after issuance of a work permit 
Fees  See Fees Webpage  See Fees Webpage 

PAGE 8
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 1: Introduction & Overview 8 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
1.3. EI – Regional Process at a Glance 
 
The process at a glance section provides a simple overview of the general application process for the 
Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional stream. Complete details of the process are described in Part 3 
of this Guide. F or other streams, refer to the applicable program guide. 
   
1. Preparation before you register: in order to apply to the EI – Regional, you must first determine 
your eligibility based on the stream requirements. You may also wish to conduct a self-
assessment. Then, you must identify a participating community listed on the BC PNP website. You 
must conduct an exploratory visit to the community to learn more about the community and to 
discuss your business proposal with the designated community contact. After your visit, you may 
request a referral from the community to be able to register under the EI – Regional stream. You 
must also have a valid language test results that meets the minimum language requirement of 
Canadian Language Benchmark (CLB) Level 4. 
2. Registration to the BC PNP: after you receive your referral, you complete and submit an online 
registration to the BC PNP.  The registration includes details about your work and/or business 
experience, education, language ability, your net worth, and information about your proposed 
business in British Columbia. After your registration is scored, the BC PNP will invite the highest-
scoring registrants to submit full applications to the BC PNP. Registrations are typically scored 
within four weeks. If invited to apply, you will then have four months from the date of your 
invitation to submit your application. 
3. Application to the BC PNP: submit a complete application to the BC PNP. You may be invited to 
attend an in-person interview in Vancouver to discuss details of your application. If your 
application is approved, you must sign a performance agreement that outlines all the 
requirements you must meet to be nominated. Applications are typically assessed within four 
months. If your application is approved, the BC PNP will issue you a letter of confirmation (i.e. a 
work permit support letter) so you may apply for a work permit to IRCC and come to B.C. to 
implement your business plan. 
4. Business establishment (work permit) period: after obtaining a work permit, you can begin to 
implement your business plan, make your investments, and create jobs. Your spouse or common-
law partner may apply for an open work permit. 
5. Nomination: after you meet the terms and conditions of your performance agreement, you must 
submit a final report to the BC PNP. If the BC PNP determines you have met the terms and 
conditions in your performance agreement, you will be nominated for permanent residence. Final 
Reports are typically assessed within four months. 
6. Application for permanent residence: you, including your spouse or common-law partner and 
dependent children (if applicable), may then apply to IRCC to become permanent residents of 
Canada under the Provincial Nominee class. For permanent residence application processing 
times, please refer to the IRCC website (Economic Immigration  Provincial Nominees).  

PAGE 9
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 9 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 
 
Sections: 
2.1. General Nominations Requirements 
2.1 (A) Active Management 
2.1 (B) Residency 
2.2. Personal Requirements 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility 
2.2 (B) Personal Net Worth 
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience 
2.2 (D) Education 
2.2 (E) Language Proficiency 
2.3. Business Requirements 
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses 
2.3 (B) Ineligible Businesses 
2.3 (C) Percent Ownership 
2.3 (D) Franchises 
2.3 (E) Seasonal Businesses 
2.3 (F) Agricultural Businesses 
2.3 (G) Businesses in Regulated Industries 
2.4. Minimum Investment Requirements 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment 
2.4 (B) Ineligible Investments 
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
2.4 (D) External Financing 
2.5. Job Requirements 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
2.5 (C) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 10
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 10 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
The BC PNP nominates individuals who will be able to make a significant economic contribution 
to British Columbia. The general requirements to receive a nomination are established by federal 
and provincial legislation. As an entrepreneur applicant, you must be able to demonstrate that:  
 
• your entry will be of benefit to the economic development of B.C. 
• you have the ability and intention to permanently settle and become economically 
established in B.C. 
• the information provided in relation to your application is accurate, complete and reliable 
• you will provide active and ongoing management of your eligible business from within 
B.C. 
 
It is also important that you do not participate in any scheme that is not permitted by federal 
immigration law. To be approved, you must not have entered into, or have intended to enter into, 
an immigration-linked investment scheme. 
 
In the sections below, you will learn about the specific requirements that you must meet to be 
eligible for the Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional stream. You can find further information 
about how these requirements are scored in Part 5. Note that meeting the minimum 
requirements does not guarantee that you will be invited to apply or that your application will be 
approved. 
 
• Carefully review the requirements in the sections below for complete details.  
• It is your responsibility to demonstrate that you meet the program requirements.  
• For more information on how registrants will be invited to apply, please refer to the 
process section of this guide
. 
• For complete information on how registrations are scored, please refer to the EI – 
Regional Registration Scoring Guide. 
 
  

PAGE 11
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 11 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
2.1. EI – Regional: General Nomination Requirements 
 
2.1 (A) Active Management  
2.1 (B) Residency  
 
 
2.1 (A) Active Management 
 
You must demonstrate your intention to actively manage the business. To be approved for 
nomination, you must demonstrate that you have been actively managing the business in B.C.  
 
Active management means you are accountable for the day-to-day operations of the business. 
Active management must occur while you are physically present at the place of business in B.C. 
 
2.1 (B) Residency 
 
You must demonstrate that you intend to reside within the boundaries of the community that 
has supported your EI – Regional registration and application, and you must demonstrate your 
intention to reside in B.C. for at least 75 per cent of the time while on a work permit. 
 
To be approved for nomination
: 
 
• you must demonstrate that you have been living in the community as described in your 
performance agreement. 
 
• you must also demonstrate that you have been physically present in B.C. for at least 75 
per cent of the time while on a work permit. For example, if you submit your final report 
366 days (approximately 12 months) after arriving in B.C. with your valid work permit, you 
must demonstrate that you have been physically present in B.C. for at least 275 days 
(approximately 9 months) while operating your business. 
 
  

PAGE 12
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 12 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
2.2. EI – Regional: Personal Requirements 
 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility  
2.2 (B) Personal Net Worth   
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience  
2.2 (D) Education 
2.2 (E) Language Proficiency 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, points will be awarded for personal net worth, business and/or work 
experience, and education. For detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer 
to the scoring section of this Guide. These factors will also be assessed during the application 
stage. 
 
2.2 (A) Immigration Eligibility 
 
Your application will not be approved if you are in Canada without valid immigration status, or if 
you are working without authorization. The BC PNP will not nominate someone who: 
 
• is prohibited from entering Canada 
• has not been lawfully admitted in the country of current residence 
• is in Canada and is out of status  
o an individual whose status has expired, and who has not applied for restoration of 
status within the 90-day eligibility period, will be considered out of status 
• is working in Canada without authorization 
• has an unresolved refugee claim in Canada 
• is under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
 
2.2 (B) 
Personal Net Worth 
 
You must have a minimum of $300,000 in personal net worth, which includes the personal net 
worth of your spouse or common-law partner, and your dependent children, if applicable. Your 
personal net worth must be legally obtained and verifiable.  
 
You must disclose all your personal net worth, including all your assets and those of your spouse 
or common-law partner, and your dependent children, less any liabilities including mortgages 
and personal debts: 


PAGE 13
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 13 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
• cash 
• assets in bank accounts (e.g., personal chequing and savings accounts) 
• fixed (term) deposits (redeemable/cashable within 12 months) 
• real property (e.g., real estate, personal and commercial property ownership) 
• investments in bonds, stocks and mutual funds 
• investments in one or more businesses (current value of your percentage ownership in 
business(es), excluding stocks held in investment portfolios that have been included under 
liquid investments above) 
• pensions and other assets (i.e. jewelry, collectables, etc.)  
• liabilities such as real property mortgage(s) or other debts (e.g., personal loans, credit card 
debt) 
  
Future inheritances cannot be included in your personal net worth. The share of business or 
property ownership must be supported by legal documents, such as deeds, shareholder 
agreements, etc. 
 
The IRCC form Schedule 4A – Personal Net Worth
 includes details about how to calculate 
personal net worth. 
 
If you receive an invitation to apply: 
 
You must obtain a net worth verification report from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm. For 
more information, please refer to net worth review section of this Guide
. 
 
The verification report will be used as part of the BC PNP application assessment process. 
Notwithstanding the conclusions of the net worth verification report, the BC PNP has sole 
discretion and responsibility to assess your BC PNP application and may request additional 
information, supporting documentation or clarification.   
  
Failure to declare your total personal net worth may result in the refusal of your 
application. 
 
Failure to provide satisfactory evidence to verify your personal net worth and source of funds 
may result in the refusal of your application. 
 
For information on what documents you must provide for a net worth verification report, please 
refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on our BC PNP website
. 
 
 

PAGE 14
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 14 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
2.2 (C) Business Owner-Manager and/or Senior Manager Experience 
  
You must have a minimum of: 
 
• more than 36 months of experience as an active business owner-manager 
If you have performed an active role in the management and operations of a 
company for which you have held 10 per cent or more ownership during the past 
60 months. An active role means that you are personally involved in the day-to-day 
operations of the company and have direct involvement in decision-making.  
or 
• more than 48 months of experience as a senior manager  
If you have worked during the past 60 months for a company/organization as an 
active senior manager (with no business ownership, or business ownership of less 
than 10 per cent) supervising at least three full-time employees, and your 
National 
Occupation Classification (NOC) i s TEER 0 or TEER 1. 
or  
• a combination of at least 12 months of experience as an active business owner-manager 
and at least 24 months (two years) of experience as a senior manager 
 
In general, to be considered as an active owner-manager or a senior manager, you primarily: 
 
• manage the organization, a department, subdivision, or component of the organization; 
or an essential function within the organization 
• supervise and control the work of: 
o other managers or supervisors 
o professional employees 
• have the authority to hire and fire, or recommend these and other personnel actions, such 
as promotion and leave authorization 
• exercise discretion over the day-to-day operations of the activity or function for which the 
employee has the authority 
 
An active role means that you are personally onsite and involved in the day-to-day operations of 
the company and have direct involvement in decision-making. For example, if you were a 
shareholder in a corporation and your only responsibility was to attend shareholder meetings, 
this would not be considered as being an active business owner-manager as you are not involved 
in the day-to-day operations of the company. 
 
 
 

PAGE 15
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 15 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
2.2 (D) Education 
 
You must have one of the following: 
 
• a post-secondary credential (such as a degree, diploma or certificate from a licensed post-
secondary institution) that is recognized in Canada.  
or 
• experience as an active business owner-manager with 100 per cent ownership of the 
business for at least 36 of the past 60 months (three of the past five years). The 100 per 
cent ownership of the business may be shared between you, your spouse or common-law 
partner, and/or your dependent child(ren).  
 
If you are invited to apply, you will be required to provide evidence of your education, and you 
may be required to provide an educational credential assessment, which is an independent 
assessment of your foreign degree, diploma, certificate or other credential. It proves that your 
qualification is valid and equivalent to Canadian credentials.  
   
Language training such as English as a second language will not be considered towards meeting 
the post-secondary requirement. 
 
2.2 (E) 
Language Proficiency 
 
You must possess basic English or French language proficiency equivalent to Canadian Language 
Benchmark (CLB) l evel 4 or higher in each of the four competencies: listening, speaking, reading 
and writing. 
 
A benchmark score of 4 is considered basic proficiency and means that you can: 
 
• communicate basic needs and personal experience 
• follow, with considerable effort, simple formal and informal conversations 
• read a simple set of instructions in plain language 
• write short messages, postcards, notes or directions 
 
The valid language test results must be from one of the following language proficiency tests 
administered by a designated testing agency: 
 
• the International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training
 
• the Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP-General) 
• the Test d'évaluation de français (TEF) 
• the Test de connaissance du français pour le Canada (TCF Canada) 
 

PAGE 16
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 16 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Test results will be considered valid for 24 months from the date of issuance. Test results must be 
valid at the time of registration. 
 
You are required to upload a valid language test result showing you meet the minimum 
requirement in your registration. 
 
The following table shows the minimum scores that you must receive for each of the four 
competencies to meet the requirement of CLB 4. You must achieve the minimum score in all four 
competencies to be eligible. 
 
Minimum Language Test Scores Required 
 Listening Reading Writing Speaking 
IELTS 4.5 3.5 4.0 4.0 
CELPIP 4 4 4 4 
TEF 145 121 181 181 
TCF Canada 342-374 4-5 331-368 4-5 
 
  

PAGE 17
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 17 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residency 
2.3. EI – Regional: Business Requirements 
 
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses   
2.3 (B) Ineligible Businesses  
2.3 (C) Percent Ownership 
2.3 (D) Franchises  
2.3 (E) Seasonal Businesses  
2.3 (F) Agricultural Businesses 
2.3 (G) Businesses in Regulated Industries 
 
  
  
 
 
 
At the registration stage, you must answer questions related to your business concept to 
describe your proposed business. Points will be awarded for your business concept, including 
potential for commercial viability, percentage ownership, and economic benefits. These factors 
will be assessed starting at the application stage and through to the nomination stage. For 
detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer to the scoring section of this 
Guide.  
 
To qualify for the EI – Regional stream, you must propose to establish a new business in a 
participating community in British Columbia that aligns with one of the economic 
development priorities identified by the community. 
 
If you are invited to apply, you must submit a comprehensive business plan that provides 
detailed information about your proposed business in B.C. For more information on required 
documents for an application, please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide 
available on the BC PNP website
. 
  
2.3 (A) Eligible Businesses 
 
The BC PNP will only consider registrations to establish a new business in a participating 
community that aligns with one of the economic development priorities identified by the 
community.  
 
Participating communities are listed on the EI Regional – Community Profiles
 page of the BC PNP 
website. 


PAGE 18
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 18 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Each community has identified the kinds of businesses it wants to attract, and has defined them 
with North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes. These codes are also listed on 
the EI Regional – Community Profiles page of the BC PNP website. Only registrations that are 
aligned with these codes will be eligible. 
 
The proposed business, which must be identified by a full six-digit NAICS code, must be 
operated for the primary purpose of earning profits by providing products and/or services. 
Additionally, your background experience must align with the proposal and the business must 
have strong potential for sustained commercial success. 
 
The BC PNP does not pre-approve or endorse business proposals.  
 
You cannot change or modify your business concept after you submit your registration. You 
must decide on the specific type of business you intend to establish in B.C. before you register. 
The business structure must be clearly defined.  
 
2.3 (B) Ineligible Businesses 
 
Your registration will be disqualified if you propose an ineligible business. The following kinds of 
businesses are ineligible under the BC PNP: 
 
• an immigration-linked investment scheme pursuant to 
Provincial Immigration Programs 
Regulation section 6(e) and the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations (IRPR) 
section 87(5)(b) and as defined in IRPR 87(9) 
• any business where the terms of investment include a redemption option pursuant to 
IRPR 87(6)(d) 
• any business that may be a passive investment pursuant to IRPR 87(6)(c) 
• bed and breakfasts, hobby farms and home-based businesses 
• payday loan, cheque cashing, money changing and cash machine businesses 
• pawnbrokers 
• tanning salons 
• DVD rental stores 
• coin-operated laundries 
• automated car wash operations 
• scrap metal recycling 
• businesses selling used goods (excluding businesses that provide value-added services 
such as repairs, refurbishing or recycling) 
• real estate brokerage, insurance brokerage or business brokerage  
• real estate development activities 
• goods trading businesses (e.g. import/export), unless value-add is demonstrated 
• businesses involved in producing, distributing or selling pornography or sexually explicit 
products or services, or providing sexually oriented services  

PAGE 19
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 19 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
• any other type of business that by association would tend to bring the BC PNP or the 
Government of British Columbia into disrepute. 
 
2.3 (C) Percent Ownership 
 
You must demonstrate that you will own at least 51 per cent of the business in B.C.  
 
2.3 (D) Franchises 
 
Franchises may be considered as eligible businesses if you can demonstrate that the proposed 
franchise is well-established (i.e. ability to expand, sound financial track record, and in operation 
for at least 60 months (5 years)).  If you are invited to apply, your application must include 
evidence that you have received support from the franchisor to set up and operate a new 
franchise location. 
 
If you are proposing to establish a new franchise location, ensure that you obtain a disclosure 
document from the franchisor before you decide to invest.  The BC PNP may request a copy of the 
disclosure document at the application stage. Section 5(4) of The Franchises Act describes the 
requirements that the disclosure document must fulfil: 
 
a) prescribed financial statements; 
b) copies of all proposed franchise agreements, and other agreements relating to the franchise, 
to be signed by a prospective franchisee; 
c) prescribed statements that have the purpose of assisting a prospective franchisee to make 
informed investment decisions; 
d) other prescribed information; 
e) copies of other prescribed documents. 
 
Please visit Starting A Franchise Business in B.C.
 for more information. 
 
2.3 (E) Seasonal Businesses 
 
The BC PNP will not consider a business proposal for a seasonal business unless you can 
demonstrate that you will be present in British Columbia and will perform an active management 
role on a year-round basis. You must also meet all other requirements outlined in this guide. 
 
2.3 (F) Agricultural Businesses 
If you are proposing to establish a new farm/agricultural business, the following additional 
requirements will apply: 
• Your business plan should be based on or cover the issues described in the document 
Taking Stock: A Farm Business Planning Workbook For The Beginning Farmer
 prepared 

PAGE 20
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 20 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
by the Ministry of Agriculture. For more information, refer to 
https://www2.gov.bc.ca/gov/content/industry/agriculture-seafood/business-market-
development/agrifood-business-management/taking-stock.   
 
Your business plan must demonstrate that you have thoroughly researched the 
feasibility of your farming operation and have established contact with relevant local 
stakeholders (e.g. local officials, suppliers and service providers) who can provide 
support to your enterprise.  
 
2.3 (G) Businesses in Regulated Industries  
 
Some industries face significant regulatory requirements in Canada. While many of these highly 
regulated industry sectors remain eligible for the BC PNP, the entrepreneur must demonstrate 
that they are aware of, and will be able to meet local, provincial and federal regulatory 
requirements.  
 
It is unlikely that the BC PNP will approve your application if you do not properly address the 
regulatory requirements of doing business in the proposed industry.  
 
Furthermore, failure to adequately research and create a plan to address the industry’s 
regulatory requirements may make it difficult or impossible for you to meet your performance 
agreement obligations. 
 
Examples of highly regulated industries include, but are not limited to: 
 
• Agriculture, agri-food & aquaculture 
• Cannabis, tobacco, and alcohol production, distribution or retailing 
• Child care, schools and educational institutions 
• Financial services and trading 
• Forestry and mining 
• Healthcare and life sciences 
• Oil and gas 
• Passenger transportation 
• Pharmacology 
• Residential care facilities 
• Telecommunications 
  

PAGE 21
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 21 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
2.4 EI – Regional: Minimum Investment Requirements 
 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment   
2.4 (B) Ineligible Investments  
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
2.4 (D) Personal and External Financing   
2.4 (E) Requirements at Nomination 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, you must provide information about your proposed investments 
related to your business concept. Points will be awarded for your total proposed investment and 
eligible investment. These factors will be assessed starting at the application stage and through 
to the nomination stage. For detailed information on how points are calculated, please refer to 
the scoring section of this Guide
. 
 
2.4 (A) Eligible Personal Investment 
 
You must make an eligible personal investment of at least $100,000 in the proposed business 
within 610 days (approximately 20 months) of arriving in B.C. on a BC PNP-supported work 
permit. The minimum eligible personal investment of $100,000 must be derived from your 
personal net worth. 
 
The proposed investment must be directed toward one business location. 
 
Eligible personal investment is the minimum required investment of eligible business 
expenditures, which may include: 
 
• new equipment purchases  
• leasehold improvements 
• marketing costs 
• regular operating expenses such as rent, wages, utilities, etc. 
• start-up inventory  
 
The eligibility of a proposed investment is determined by the BC PNP based on whether the 
expenditure is essential to establish and operate a new business. Consequently, total personal 
investment may differ from the eligible personal investment under the BC PNP.  
 
 


PAGE 22
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 22 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Some investment items may not be eligible while others may be eligible with limitations: 
 
(i) Purchase of a business vehicle: 
The BC PNP will not consider the purchase of a vehicle as an eligible investment unless 
you can demonstrate that the vehicle is essential to the business. If you can show that it is 
essential, the BC PNP will consider no more than $15,000 of the purchase price of that 
vehicle to be part of your eligible investment.  
 
(ii) Operating expenses: 
Operating expenses refer to regular, recurring monthly expenses that are essential to 
business operations such as rent, wages and salaries, utilities, marketing or advertising, 
bookkeeping, etc. 
 
The BC PNP may consider eligible operating expenses in the following circumstances: 
o For new businesses that are not franchise locations: A maximum of six months of 
operating expenses.  
o For a new franchise location: A maximum of three months of operating expenses. 
 
(iii) Inventory: 
For the establishment of a new business, the BC PNP may consider a reasonable amount 
of start-up inventory. The reasonableness of the start-up inventory is based on the 
industry standard, type of products, and size and scope of the proposed business.  
 
A maximum of three months of inventory may be considered eligible. 
 
2.4 (B) Ineligible Investments: 
 
Ineligible investments include, but are not limited to, the following: 
 
• cash and working capital (including reserves and contingency funds) 
• wage payments made to yourself and your family members, or other business co-owners 
• refundable deposits 
• real estate and related fees 
• purchase of an existing business or business assets 
• research and development expenses 
• fees and costs related to your immigration application, including: 
o immigration representative fees 
o personal net worth verification report fee 
o fees related to the preparation of review engagement financial statements 
o BC PNP application fees 
 
These investments will not count toward your eligible personal investment. However, they may 
still be part of your business plan’s total investment. 

PAGE 23
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 23 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
2.4 (C) Timing of your Investment 
 
The BC PNP will not consider any investment made prior to the date you are invited to apply as 
eligible.  
 
The BC PNP strongly discourages registrants and applicants from making any investment or 
financial commitment prior to signing a performance agreement
 with the BC PNP and obtaining 
a valid work permit from IRCC. Any investment made prior to obtaining approval and a valid work 
permit is solely at your own risk. 
 
2.4 (D) Personal and External Financing 
 
The BC PNP requires that you make the minimum eligible personal investment from your 
personal funds. You are required to provide documentation that shows the provenance (source) 
of your personal investment and prove that this money, as well as any subsequent personal 
investment in your business, was drawn from your personal funds. However, you may also use 
external financing from a business partner or financial institutions for investments beyond the 
minimum requirement.  
 
If you need external financing in addition to your personal investment to establish your business, 
you must identify how you will obtain the financing and how it will be applied in your proposed 
investment. 
 
2.4 (E) Requirement at Nomination 
 
In your final report, you must be able to demonstrate that you have made the investment 
amount in the signed performance agreement.  
 
  

PAGE 24
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 24 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
2.5. EI – Regional: Job Requirements 
 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
2.5 (C) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At the registration stage, points will be awarded for your proposed number of positions you will 
employ and their corresponding skill levels. These factors will be assessed starting during the 
application stage and through to the nomination stage. For detailed information on how points 
are calculated, please refer to the scoring section of this Guide. 
 
2.5 (A) Minimum Job Creation Requirements 
 
You must create at least one new, permanent full-time equivalent (FTE) job for a Canadian 
citizen or permanent resident of Canada in the proposed business, within 420 days 
(approximately 14 months) of arriving in B.C. on a BC PNP-supported work permit. 
 
You must also demonstrate the likelihood of supporting long-term employment of Canadians or 
permanent residents of Canada in the proposed business. 
 
An FTE job means a position of at least 30 hours per week on average and 1,560 hours per year, 
worked by one or more employees under continuous employment. FTEs must be Canadian 
citizens or permanent residents of Canada. 
 
Independent contractors will not be considered as part of your job creation requirement – only 
direct employees of the proposed business will be considered.  
 
Any shareholder with 10% ownership or more of the business will not be considered as part of 
your job creation/maintenance requirement. FTEs must work at the primary place of business 
and not remotely.  
 
Employment in British Columbia is regulated by the Employment Standards Act. For more 
information, please visit the Employment Standards website
.  
 


PAGE 25
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 2: EI – Regional Requirements 25 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
2.5 (B) Determining the Skill Level of Positions 
 
When determining the position(s) to be created, please refer to the National Occupational 
Classification (NOC) system. 
 
The NOC system is a classification system used by the Government of Canada to identify 
occupations and associated skill levels. The five-digit NOC codes also outline job duties and 
employment requirements. 
 
Proposed wages for the employees must be consistent with the NOC TEER category of the 
positions created. For information on average wages, please refer to information on Work BC
. 
 
2.5 (C) Requirements at Nomination Stage 
 
To be approved for nomination, you must demonstrate that you have consistently employed the 
required number of full-time equivalent jobs, continuously, for at least 180 days (six months) 
before submitting your final report
. 
 
  

PAGE 26
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 26 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 
 
Sections:  
3.1. Preparation Before You Register 
3.2. Registering with the BC PNP 
3.3. Applying to the BC PNP 
3.4. Business Establishment 
3.5. Nomination 
3.6. After Nomination: Permanent Residence 
 
 
This section provides detailed information for the general process to immigrate under the BC 
PNP Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional stream. 
  
 
 
 
 
(A) Research 
community 
and business 
needs in B.C.
 
 
(B) Conduct 
exploratory 
visit to the 
community 
 
(C) Obtain a 
referral from 
the 
community 
 
(D) Online 
resources 
 
 
(A) Registration 
Overview  
 
(B) Creating your 
Profile
 
 
(C) Completing the 
Registration
 
 
(D) Submitting your 
Registration
 
 
(E) Registration 
Scoring
 
 
(F) Qualified Pool 
 
(G) Invitation to 
Apply
 
(A) Net Worth 
Review
 
 
(B) Submitting 
your 
Application 
 
(C) Application 
Assessment  
 
(D) Interview 
 
(E) Performance 
Agreement
 
(A) Arrival 
 
(B) Building your 
Business in 
B.C.
 
 
(C) Post-Arrival 
Progress 
Check-in 
 
(A) Final Report 
 
(B) Conditions of 
Nomination 
 
(C) Nomination 
 
 
(A) Applying to 
IRCC for 
Permanent 
Residenc
e 
 
(B) Work Permit 
Extensions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 27
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 27 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.1. EI – Regional: Preparation Before You Register 
 
3.1 (A) Identify participating community and research business needs 
3.1 (B) Conduct exploratory visit to the community 
3.1 (C) Obtain a referral from the community 
3.1 (D) Online resources 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This section provides information on the necessary steps you must take before you can 
register under the EI – Regional stream. As a general outline: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.1 (A) Identify participating community and research business needs 
 
Carefully review the EI – Regional requirements detailed in this guide.  
 
The EI – Regional - Community Profiles page
 on the BC PNP website lists the enrolled 
communities eligible under the EI – Regional stream. Each community profile will include 
information about its: 
 
• community population  
• geographic location 
• contact information for the designated contact person 
• economic development priorities (kinds of businesses targeted, as defined by NAICS 
codes) 
• community description 
• website and/or other information 
 
Research 
community & 
develop business 
proposal
Contact 
community to 
arrange for an 
exploratory visit
Conduct 
exploratory visit 
to the 
community
Meet with 
designated 
community 
contact 
Request and 
obtain a referral
and 
Complete a 
language 
proficiency test 

PAGE 28
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 28 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You are also encouraged to learn more about each community’s unique economic development 
priorities and how your business plans may align with their needs: 
 
• Economic regions in BC https://www.britishcolumbia.ca/about-british-columbia-
canada/regions/ 
• Labour market regional profiles www.workbc.ca/Labour-Market-Industry/Regional-
Profiles.aspx 
• Opportunity in BC https://www.britishcolumbia.ca/industries/ 
  

PAGE 29
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 29 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This map is for information purposes only. Communities shown on map may not be enrolled in 
the EI – Regional stream. Refer to the BC PNP website
 for list of partipating communities.  
 
Click here to view detailed reference maps. 

PAGE 30
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 30 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
3.1 (B) Conduct exploratory visit to the community 
 
After you have identified a community and developed a business proposal that aligns with one of 
the economic development priorities of the community, you must contact the community (as 
listed on the BC PNP website) to express your interest in the EI – Regional stream and 
community.  
  
You must make an exploratory visit to the community in which you intend to establish a business 
in B.C. before you can request for a referral from the community. You must obtain a referral in 
order to submit a registration to the BC PNP under the EI – Regional stream. 
  
Each community may have its own conditions and processes. You are encouraged to learn more 
by contacting the community. 
 
Tips and information: Self-assessment 
 
A community may inquire about your background and likelihood of obtaining an invitation to 
apply. You may fill out the self-declared portion of your registration to obtain an estimated score, 
which you may provide to a community should they inquire.  
 
You would have to fill out all sections of the registration form and then return to My Dashboard 
where you can print out the results. You may update and make changes to your registration 
including your business concept before you select Submit this registration form. 
 
For information about creating a profile and filling out a registration, refer to the 
registration 
section. For detailed information about how points are calculated, refer to the EI – Regional 
Registration Scoring Guide. 
  
During your exploratory visit, you can also: 
 
• investigate and evaluate potential business opportunities 
• update and/or refine your business proposal 
• conduct market research 
• make local business contacts 
• connect with relevant economic development officers of the community 
• learn more about living and doing business in the community, and gain a better 
understanding of the health care and education programs, housing, culture, recreation 
opportunities, and lifestyle 
 
 During your exploratory visit, you must meet with the community’s Designated Contact Person 
(DCP) to discuss your business proposal, including your suitability. You are encouraged to 
develop a preliminary investment breakdown, job creation plan, and gather additional 
information on how to establish a commercially viable business under your management. 

PAGE 31
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 31 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
If you require a visitor visa (Temporary Resident Visa) to travel to Canada, you must apply online 
or to a Canadian visa office. 
 
The BC PNP and participating communities will not provide a letter of support for you to obtain a 
Temporary Resident Visa to conduct an exploratory visit to B.C. 
 
3.1 (C) Obtain a referral from the community 
 
To be able to register under the Entrepreneur Immigration – Regional stream, you must obtain a 
referral from the supporting community.  
 
A referral from the supporting community is a form that describes information about your 
proposed business in the community, including details about your exploratory visit to the 
community. A referral is valid for 90 days from the date of issue. 
 
Your business proposal must be identified as a six-digit NAICS code
 that aligns with one of the 
NAICS codes selected by the community. 
 
Communities may limit the number of referrals they issue. BC PNP reserves the right to limit the 
number of referrals from a specific community. 
 
You may request a referral only after you have conducted an exploratory visit to the community 
and met with the designated community contact person. You may be required to meet any 
conditions or requirements set by the community in order to obtain a referral. If the designated 
community contact person determines you are a suitable candidate, the designated community 
contact person will fill out a referral form and provide a copy to you and to the BC PNP.  
  
You must upload a copy of your valid referral form when you submit your online registration
. If 
you do not upload your valid referral form in your registration, your registration will be 
disqualified. 
 
3.1 (D) Online resources 
 
You many also want to explore the following online resources to learn more about our province: 
 
• Welcome BC: Learn about living, working and studying in B.C. as an immigrant to Canada.  
 
• Small Business BC: This resource centre has information, products, services and support for 
entrepreneurs at every stage of business development. 
 
• Trade and Invest BC: Learn about the many opportunities to invest in high-growth 
businesses, discover B.C.’s innovation clusters, connect with B.C’s businesses and 
communities, and explore B.C.’s unique lifestyle. 
 

PAGE 32
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 32 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
• Start Your Business: A detailed guide on how to establish a business in B.C. as well as 
information you may want to consider before you develop your business concept. 
 
• Hello BC: British Columbia’s official tourist website, with suggestions on things to see and 
do, places to stay and information on how to get around. 
 
• BC Economic Development Association (BCEDA): Learn more about the role of economic 
development in the regions. You may refer to the directory of BCEDA members for specific 
industry information for a particular B.C. community. 
 
• You may also refer to the Business Improvement Association of BC website, and the BC 
Chamber of Commerce website. 
 
  

PAGE 33
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 33 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.2. EI – Regional: Registering with the BC PNP 
 
3.2 (A) Registration Overview   
3.2 (B) Creating your Profile 
3.2 (C) Completing the Registration 
3.2 (D) Submitting your Registration 
3.2 (E) Registration Scoring 
3.2 (F) Qualified Pool 
3.2 (G) Invitation to Apply  
 
 
 
 
 
The BCPNP Online
 registration system is an online registration process that is the first step to 
immigrating to British Columbia as an immigrant entrepreneur. As it is a points-based system, 
you will receive a score based on the information you provide.  
 
Your score will determine whether you will receive an invitation to apply
 under the Entrepreneur 
Immigration – Regional stream. 
 
The BC PNP reserves the right to make changes to the BCPNP Online registration system without 
prior notice, including changes to the score grids, the minimum total required in each section, 
the expiry of registrations in the qualified pool, and the number and frequency of registrants 
invited to apply.  
 
Please check our website
 to ensure you are using the most up-to-date version of this guide. 
 
3.2 (A) Registration Overview  
 
Please carefully review EI – Regional requirements
 before completing your registration.  
 
A non-refundable registration fee
 will be charged at the time of registration submission. 
 
Obtaining a referral or submitting a registration is not a guarantee that you will be invited to 
apply.  
 
Registrants may only have one active BC PNP registration or application at any given time.  
 
The BC PNP reserves the right to limit the number of registrations that will be accepted in all 
Entrepreneur Immigration streams. 
 

PAGE 34
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 34 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Registrations are typically scored within four weeks of submission. 
 
3.2 (B) Creating your Profile  
 
Before you can register, you must create a profile with BCPNP Online. This includes your personal 
email and home address, telephone number and passport information as well as security 
questions and password. You will receive an email from the BC PNP asking you to confirm your 
email address and password.  
 
The BC PNP can only provide specific information about your registration and/or application if 
your email address was authorized in your BCPNP Online profile. 
 
You are responsible for updating your contact information in your profile and ensuring that it is 
current and up to date. You should ensure that it remains current for as long as you continue to 
have an active registration or application with the BC PNP, so that you will receive any important 
messages from program staff. If you are nominated, you should continue to keep the BC PNP 
updated until IRCC has concluded your application for permanent residence. 
 
Once you have completed your profile, click on the Entrepreneur Immigration button to continue 
the registration process, and then click on the EI – Regional button. 
 
The BC PNP requires that the email address in your BCPNP Online Profile be your personal 
email address. This is to ensure you receive all correspondence relevant to your file. 
 
3.2 (C) Completing the Registration 
 
When you select EI – Regional, you will be directed to My Dashboard, where you can complete your 
registration. You must provide information in all sections, which are listed as tabs across the top 
of My Dashboard.  
 
You can copy and paste from another program into text fields. Tables that require numbers will 
automatically calculate totals. The system will save your information when you click on any tab 
and when you click the Next or Previous buttons. 
 
Tips and information 
 
You do not need to complete the registration in one session. You may return to your registration 
as often as needed. Inactive profiles and registrations will be deleted after 30 days. 
 
If you do not meet the minimum eligibility score, you will be directed to My Dashboard. Any 
sections where you did not meet the minimum score or sections where there was an error will be 
highlighted in red. You may return to those sections and correct any errors. 

PAGE 35
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 35 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
To avoid lost data due to system time-out or network connection issues, the BC PNP recommends 
that you compose your business concept in local word processing software and then paste the 
text into the browser field.  
 
Once you have paid the fee and submitted your registration, you will not be able to make 
changes or modify any information in your registration.  
 
3.2 (D) Submitting your Registration 
 
Before you can submit your registration, you must upload clear scanned copies of: 
 
• your valid referral form  
• your valid language test result
  
• biographical page (and signature page) of your current passport  
• current photograph  
• use of a representative form, if applicable  
 
Valid language test result: Submit a clear, scanned copy of the IELTS test results form, 
the CELPIP official score report or TEF as a PDF file. Note that the BC PNP may request an 
original copy of the test results if needed. 
 
Biographical page of passport: You must provide a clear, scanned copy of the 
biographical page of your current passport, as a PDF file. The biographical page is the 
page in the passport with the name, photo, passport/travel document number, issue 
date, expiration date, and signature. 
 
Current photograph: You must provide one passport style photograph taken within the 
last six months. Please attach the photograph as a PDF or JPG file. Spouses/common-law 
partners and dependants do not need to submit photographs. A guarantor is not 
required. 
 
Use of a representative form: if you are using the services of an immigration 
representative, you must upload a scanned copy of the use of a representative form 
available on our website
. The form must be current and signed by both you and the 
representative within six months before you submit your registration. For more 
information about using a representative, please refer to the Use of a R epresentative 
section. 
 
After you have uploaded the required documents, you must complete the submit tab, which 
contains the declaration and confirmation for you and your spouse. When you select Submit this 
registration form, the system will calculate your section scores, based on the information you 

PAGE 36
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 36 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
provided. The business concept section will be scored separately by the BC PNP within four 
weeks.  
 
If your scores in each section meet the minimum eligibility scores, you will be directed to the 
electronic payment system to pay the non-refundable registration fee.  
 
Your registration will only be submitted to the BC PNP after you have paid the registration fee. 
You will receive a fee payment receipt and acknowledgment.  
 
After you complete your registration, please ensure that you have received a confirmation email 
that includes your BC PNP registration number. If you do not receive this email within 24 hours, 
please email the BC PNP at en.imm@gov.bc.ca
 for further instructions. 
 
The declaration in the online registration and application requires your consent and is the legal 
equivalent to your signature. As the registrant, you must ensure that you have read and 
understood the declaration.   
 
It is your responsibility to ensure that your email correspondence was successfully received by 
the BC PNP. The BC PNP recommends that you enable “delivery receipts” in your email program. 
  
It is your responsibility to check your spam or junk folders for email correspondence from the BC 
PNP.  
 
3.2 (E) Registration Scoring 
 
The BC PNP will verify the information you provide in your registration and may adjust your self-
declared score if necessary. The score grids in the EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 
provide details of how your score will be calculated. 
 
Your registration will be assessed according to the program requirements applicable at the time 
that you submit your registration. 
 
The business concept section will be scored by the BC PNP, typically within four weeks of 
submission. The BC PNP will verify the scoring in all sections to finalize your registration score.  
 
Certain sections of the registration have minimum eligibility scores. You must meet the minimum 
scores in each section to be entered into the qualified pool.  
 
The minimum total score to be entered into the qualified pool is 105. 
 
 
 

PAGE 37
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 37 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
EI – Regional Scoring Overview 
 Scoring Sections Points 
Self-declared 
Experience & Ownership 24 
Net Worth 6 
Total Personal Investment 10 
Jobs 15 
Community Population 6 
B.C.’s Regions 12 
Adaptability 67 
Self-declared SUBTOTAL score 140 
Business 
concept 
Commercial Viability  30 
Transferability of Skills  15 
Economic Benefits 15 
Business concept SUBTOTAL score 60 
Maximum Score Available 200 
 
3.2 (F) Qualified Pool 
 
Upon completion of the registration scoring, you will receive an email from the BC PNP indicating 
your total score and whether you have met minimum requirements to be entered in the qualified 
pool. You will be able to view your registration score, including scores for each section, on BC 
PNP Online. 
 
Registrations that meet the total minimum points in every section and the minimum total score 
of 105 will be entered into the qualified pool. Registrations in the qualified pool are valid for 180 
days (approximately 6 months). If you are not invited to apply to the BC PNP within 180 days of 
qualifying, your registration will expire.  
 
 
 

PAGE 38
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 38 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
3.2 (G) Invitation to Apply 
 
(i) Prioritization of Qualified Registrants in the Pool 
Periodically, the BC PNP will invite registrants from the qualified pool to apply. If you have 
entered the qualified pool, your final registration score will be ranked along with other 
registrants in the EI-Regional stream.  
 
The selection of registrants to receive an invitation to apply will be based on the ranking of 
the pool members, provided that the BC PNP may apply additional factors to modify the 
selected registrants in order to achieve program objectives, including: 
 
• distribution of applicants across participating communities 
• the length of time that qualified registrants have spent in the pool 
 
(ii) Invitation to apply  
If you are invited to apply under the EI – Regional stream, you will receive an email 
notification including:  
o instructions on how to complete an EI – Regional application  
o list of authorized accounting firms for the verification of your net worth 
o timelines for application submission 
 
You will have up to 120 days (approximately four months) from the date of invitation to 
submit a complete application. This allows you time to finalize your business plan and 
obtain a verification report of your net worth
 from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm.  
 
If you receive an invitation to apply, your registration will be removed from the qualified 
pool.  
 
If you select the ‘decline’ button on BC PNP Online, your invitation to apply will be declined 
and your registration and invitation will be cancelled. Your profile will remain active. You 
may submit a new registration at any time. However, re-registration does not guarantee 
another invitation to apply. Registration fees will not be refunded for users who decline an 
invitation to apply. 
 
The number and frequency of invitations to apply is based on annual nomination 
allocations and the BC PNP’s processing capacity to ensure timely processing of 
applications. 
 
It is important that your application remains consistent with the information provided in 
your registration. The BC PNP may refuse your application if the information in your 
application is materially different from your registration.  
 

PAGE 39
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 39 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Information about invitations to apply, including previous invitation dates, numbers of 
invitations issued, additional factors used to identify candidates who will receive 
invitations, and minimum required scores, are posted on the invitations to apply page of 
our website. 
 
Receiving an invitation to apply does not guarantee that your application will be approved. 
 
(iii) What if I am not invited to apply? 
 
Becoming a qualified registrant in the pool does not guarantee that you will be invited to 
apply.  
 
If you are not invited, you may wish to improve your score by developing a new business 
concept, conducting more research into the business environment in B.C., or improving 
your adaptability and submitting a new registration.  
 
You can only have one active registration at any one time. If you are submitting a new 
registration, you must first withdraw any registration currently in process. 
 
   

PAGE 40
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 40 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.3. EI – Regional: Applying to the BC PNP 
 
3.3 (A) Net Worth Review 
3.3 (B) Submitting your Application 
3.3 (C) Application Processing Fee 
3.3 (D) Application Assessment  
3.3 (E) Interview 
3.3 (F) Performance Agreement 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3 (A) Net Worth Review 
 
Before you can submit your application, you must obtain a verification report of your personal 
net worth from a BC PNP-authorized accounting firm. 
 
(i) What is an “authorized accounting firm”? 
You must engage a BC PNP-authorized professional accounting firm to verify your total 
personal net worth and accumulation of funds before you submit your application to the 
BC PNP. 
 
An authorized accounting firm is a professional chartered accounting services supplier, 
who is qualified by the BC PNP, that will complete a verification report of your total 
personal net worth.  
 
(ii) Where can I find the list of “authorized accounting firms”? 
The list of authorized accounting firms and instructions is included with the invitation to 
apply. 
 
(iii) How does it work? 
(a) You must have received an invitation to apply before you engage an authorized 
accounting firm. 
 
(b) You must enter into an agreement with an authorized accounting firm as soon as 
possible to complete a review of your total personal net worth. You are responsible 
for all costs associated with this service. 
 

PAGE 41
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 41 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
(c) You must declare all of your personal net worth and provide supporting documents 
to the authorized accounting firm. Your personal net worth includes your spouse or 
common-law partner, and dependent children, if applicable. 
 
(d) The authorized accounting firm will review your net worth claims and your 
accumulation of funds through an analysis of your supporting financial 
documentation. The authorized accounting firm will produce a verification report of 
your total personal net worth and its legal accumulation. The report will outline the 
amount that is verifiable, and whether there are any issues that may require 
further investigation by the BC PNP. The authorized accounting firm may contact 
you to request additional information. 
 
(e) When the review is complete, the authorized accounting firm will send you and the 
BC PNP a copy of the net worth verification report. You will submit your copy to the 
BC PNP as an upload. 
   
(iv) What will I need to provide? 
 
You must provide the authorized accounting firm with: 
• a completed IRCC Schedule 4A Personal Net Worth form
, and 
• the Section J - Accumulation of Wealth Narrative from the Schedule 4A form 
• all supporting documentation identified in the Entrepreneur Immigration 
Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
 
 
You are responsible to provide a complete account of your personal net worth and source 
of funds.  
 
All documents not in English must include copies of certified translations. The copy of the 
document in the original language and the translation must both be notarized. 
 
Failure to declare your total personal net worth may result in the refusal of your 
application. 
 
Failure to provide satisfactory evidence to verify your net worth and source of funds may 
result in the refusal of your application. 
 
(v) What are the details? 
The cost of obtaining a verification report will depend on which authorized accounting 
firm you choose, and the extent and complexity of your net worth. 
 
The amount of time it takes to evaluate your financial documentation and prepare a 
verification report will vary. However, the authorized accounting firm may take up to 60 

PAGE 42
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 42 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
days to complete a verification report. Various factors can affect the timing, such as the 
volume of financial documentation you provide, and the processing capacity of the 
authorized accounting firm. 
 
The net worth verification report is valid for 12 months from the date of issuance by the 
authorized accounting firm. 
 
The verification report will be used as part of the BC PNP application assessment process.  
 
Notwithstanding the conclusions of the net worth verification report, the BC PNP has sole 
discretion and responsibility to assess your BC PNP application and may request additional 
information, supporting documentation or clarification.  
 
Do not engage an authorized accounting firm until you have received your invitation to apply 
from the BC PNP.  
 
3.3 (B) Submitting your Application 
 
You will have up to 120 days (approximately four months) from the date you are invited to apply 
to submit a complete application, including a verification report of your net worth, all supporting 
documents, and a comprehensive business plan. 
 
Your application must be submitted through BC PNP Online (refer to your Invitation to Apply and 
BC PNP Online for instructions). A maximum of 50 attachments can be uploaded to your 
application. Attachments cannot exceed 3MB each; reduce your file sizes and merge files 
according to type of document. 
 
For more information on submitting your application, including a Business Plan Guide, refer to 
the Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
 
Your business plan must demonstrate: 
• the proposed business is consistent with your registration business concept; and 
• potential for commercial viability under your ownership, including a market entry strategy 
to show how your proposed business will be successful in British Columbia.   
 
The BC PNP may refuse your application if the information in your application is materially 
different from what you submitted in your registration.  
 
3.3 (C) Application Fee 
 
A non-refundable application fee
 will be charged at the time of application submission. 
 

PAGE 43
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 43 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
3.3 (D) Application Assessment 
 
After a review of your application, the BC PNP may have concerns about its content. If that 
happens, the BC PNP will offer you an opportunity to respond to any concerns. After considering 
your response, the BC PNP may refuse your application. Alternatively, you may be invited to 
continue in the assessment process, even if the BC PNP’s concerns have not yet been fully 
resolved. Please note that any specific concerns discussed in this part of the process may 
continue to be raised as you move forward to subsequent steps. 
 
Throughout the assessment of your BC PNP Entrepreneur Immigration application, your 
business plan must be consistent with your registration. If a finding of material difference is 
made by a Program Advisor, your application may be refused. 
 
A failure to provide a timely and satisfactory response to all concerns raised may result in refusal 
of your application. 
 
Your application may be refused if the BC PNP determines you made a misrepresentation
, which 
can include providing false or misleading information or concealing relevant information about 
your application including during your interview. 
 
3.3 (E) Interview 
 
If requested by the BC PNP, you will be required to attend an interview. In the interview, you will 
be expected to describe your business/work experience and answer in-depth questions about 
your application. 
   
The interview will also be an opportunity to address any concerns that are raised. 
 
A decision on your application will be based on the information you provide up to and during 
your interview. At the discretion of the BC PNP, you may be asked to submit additional 
information after your interview if it is needed to finalize a decision on your application. The BC 
PNP will not accept new or additional information submitted after your interview unless it has 
been requested. 
 
Interviews are conducted in English only. If you are unable to communicate in English, you 
must obtain the services of a certified court interpreter. This is to ensure you will be able to 
clearly communicate to BC PNP program staff. You must submit a Use of an Interpreter form
 with 
a copy of the interpreter’s  certification a minimum of ten days prior to your scheduled interview.  
 
A certified court interpreter is a member of the 
Society of Translators and Interpreters of BC 
(STIBC) or a society belonging to the Canadian Translators, Terminologists and Interpreters 
Council (CTTIC).  
 

PAGE 44
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 44 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
The interpreter provides direct interpretation during the interview and will not assist you to 
respond to questions in any way other than direct interpretation of questions and answers.  
 
Your spouse or common-law partner and/or your authorized immigration representative, if 
applicable, may attend the interview in an observer capacity. 
 
No one else is permitted to be present during the interview.  
 
Attending an interview does not guarantee that your application will be approved. 
 
 
3.3 (F) Performance Agreement 
 
You will be required to sign a performance agreement before your application is approved. The 
performance agreement outlines the terms and conditions you must meet to be considered for 
nomination. 
 
Performance agreements are unique to each applicant and are based on the information 
provided in the application, business plan, and during the interview. You must immediately 
inform the BC PNP of any changes in your situation that might affect your ability to meet the 
conditions of your performance agreement. 
 
The performance agreement typically includes:  
 
• type of business and location 
• eligible investment amounts  
• the number and type of positions to be created for Canadians or permanent residents 
• active management requirement 
• residency requirements 
• timeframes within which you must meet these requirements 
 
Important: Failure to meet the terms and conditions of your signed performance agreement 
within the timeframes may result in a refusal at the nomination stage
.  
 
Please note that the performance agreement does not replace any of the normal permits or 
licences that you are required to obtain to run a business in British Columbia. It is your 
responsibility to ensure that you obtain any required licences from Provincial or municipal 
authorities. 
 
  

PAGE 45
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 45 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.4. EI – Regional: Business Establishment 
 
3.4 (A) Arrival 
3.4 (B) Building your Business in B.C. 
3.4 (C) Work Permit Extensions 
3.4 (D) Post-Arrival Progress Check-In 
 
 
 
 
 
Once you have signed a performance agreement, the BC PNP will issue you a letter of 
confirmation (i.e. work permit support letter), which will allow you to apply to IRCC
 for a work 
permit. This permit will enable you and your dependants to move to B.C. so you can start 
implementing your business plan. The letter of confirmation is valid for 90 days (approximately 
three months).  
  
A work permit is the official document issued by the Government of Canada that allows a foreign 
national to work legally on a temporary basis in Canada. The length of the temporary work 
permit may vary at the discretion of IRCC, but is usually two years. 
 
You must apply for your work permit prior to the expiry date on your letter of confirmation. Your 
spouse or common-law partner will be eligible to apply for an open work permit, and your 
dependent child(ren) will be eligible for study permits to attend elementary or secondary school 
(if applicable). 
 
At its discretion, the BC PNP may issue a maximum of two letters of confirmation. In general, the 
BC PNP will issue such a letter if you have less than six months left on your current work permit 
and you are able to demonstrate that you are making progress on establishing your business. 
 
3.4 (A) Arrival 
 
After you sign your performance agreement, you must arrive in B.C. with your valid work permit 
within 365 days (12 months) from the date of your letter of confirmation. The date you arrive in 
Canada and are issued your work permit (the “date issued” on your Government of Canada work 
permit) is your “Commencement Date” for purposes of your performance agreement. Any 
subsequent milestones mentioned in your performance agreement are calculated from that 
date, such as due dates for the Arrival Report and the Final Report. 
 

PAGE 46
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 46 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
If you do not arrive in B.C. within the 365-day period from the date of your letter of confirmation, 
your BC PNP application may be closed and no further immigration support from the province 
will be provided. 
 
You must submit an arrival report to the BC PNP within 60 days of arriving in B.C. with your valid 
work permit, or, from the date your performance agreement was signed, whichever is later. The 
arrival report provides basic information about your updated contact information in B.C., your 
work permit, and whether you transferred the requisite funds into a financial institution in B.C. 
Your arrival report must be submitted through My Dashboard. 
 
After you arrive in B.C. with your valid work permit, you are encouraged to meet with your 
community’s Designated Contact Person (DCP) to: 
 
• discuss your progress in establishing your business 
• get help with settlement issues such as housing, schooling for your dependent child(ren), 
and if applicable, obtaining language training or securing business support services 
 
Refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide available on the BC PNP website
 for 
more information. 
 
3.4 (B) Building your Business in B.C. 
 
Once you arrive in B.C. with your valid work permit, you will have up to 610 days (approximately 
20 months) to implement your business plan, actively manage your business, and satisfy the 
terms and conditions of your signed performance agreement. 
  
You are not permitted to vary any terms of the performance agreement. If you believe that you 
will not be able to meet the terms of the 
performance agreement, you must contact our office with 
a detailed explanation of the difficulties you are experiencing. 
 
3.4 (C) Work Permit Extensions 
 
If your work permit is due to expire within 180 days (approximately six months), you must 
contact en.imm@gov.bc.ca
 to request a work permit support letter, which will allow you to apply 
to IRCC to extend your work permit. The BC PNP may request evidence to confirm you are 
meeting the terms of your signed performance agreement. 
 
For information on the process for extending your work permit, refer to IRCC’s website. 
 
 

PAGE 47
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 47 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
3.4 (D) Post-Arrival Progress Check-In 
 
Six to eight (6 to 8) months after you arrive, your community’s DCP will connect with you to see 
how your business establishment and operation is going. This check in is an opportunity for you 
to ask questions and for your DCP to connect you with business and family support services that 
may help you as you establish your business and get settled in your new community.  
 
Based on this interaction, your DCP will file a report to update the BC PNP on the progress you 
are making as you work to establish your business. 
 
 
   

PAGE 48
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 48 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
 
3.5. EI – Regional: Nomination 
 
3.5 (A) Final Report 
3.5 (B) Conditions of Nomination 
3.5 (C) Nomination 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To be approved for nomination, you must demonstrate you have met the terms and conditions of 
your performance agreement
 by submitting a final report to the BC PNP. 
 
3.5 (A) Final Report  
 
You must submit a final report to the BC PNP between 366 to 610 days (approximately 12 to 20 
months) after the issuance date of your valid work permit. 
 
The final report contains the form and the supporting documents that you must submit when 
you apply for nomination. Your final report must be submitted on BC PNP Online. A maximum of 
50 attachments can be uploaded to your application. Attachments cannot exceed 3MB each. 
Reduce your file sizes and merge files according to type of document. 
 
In your final report, it is your responsibility to demonstrate to that you have met the terms and 
conditions described in your signed performance agreement. You must submit all required 
supporting documents, as outlined in the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide available 
on the BC PNP website. This includes one full year of financial statements for the business that 
have undergone review engagement by a Chartered Professional Accountant (CPA). The CPA 
cannot have any real or perceived conflict of interest.     
 
The BC PNP will review and evaluate your final report, and may at its discretion, request 
additional information, conduct a site visit at your B.C. business, and/or may require that you be 
available for an interview to obtain information about your business establishment and assess 
your eligibility for nomination. 
 
You must be physically present in Canada when the final report is submitted, and you must 
commit to remain in Canada until a nomination decision is rendered by a program advisor. 
 
If you fail to meet the terms and conditions of the 
performance agreement during the mandatory 
timeframes, your application may be refused at the nomination stage and your file will be closed.  

PAGE 49
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 49 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
Your application may be refused if the BC PNP determines you made a misrepresentation, which 
can include providing false or misleading information or concealing relevant information about 
your application in your final report. 
 
You may only submit one final report.  
 
Please refer to the Entrepreneur Immigration Post-Arrival Guide available on the BC PNP website
 
for more information.  
 
3.5 (B) Conditions of Nomination 
 
If the BC PNP is satisfied that you have met your performance agreement terms and approves 
your nomination, you will be required to sign and submit a Conditions of Nomination declaration. 
This document sets out the conditions you must continue to meet while your federal 
application for permanent residence is in process.  
 
Failure to submit a declaration or to maintain the conditions it identifies may result in the BC PNP 
cancelling your nomination. 
 
It is a condition of your nomination that you are not at any time: 
 
• prohibited from entering Canada 
• under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
• working in Canada without authorization 
• working in Canada for any business or employer other than the business for which you 
have been nominated 
 
It is a condition of your nomination that you must: 
 
• meet the terms outlined in the signed declaration of nomination, including the agreed 
upon nature of business operations, business location, ownership percentage, job 
creation and/or job maintenance, residency requirement, as well as your ongoing and 
active management of the business 
• operate the business in a manner consistent with any required permit, licence, approval or 
other legal or regulatory requirements 
• maintain legal authorization to work in Canada, or if status has expired, be able to 
demonstrate that an application for restoration of status within the 90-day eligibility 
period has been submitted 
• comply with the requirements of Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations section 
87, and Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation subsection 6(g). 
 

PAGE 50
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 50 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
In order to continue to effectively support your nomination as you apply for permanent 
residence, the BC PNP needs to ensure that it has accurate, up-to-date information about your 
circumstances. You must inform the BC PNP in a timely manner if there is a change in your 
circumstances, including but not limited to: 
 
• change in business operations including ownership percentage change 
• change in business location 
• change in residential address 
• change in marital status or number of dependants 
• change in immigration status 
• refusal of a Work Permit and/or refusal of a Temporary Resident Visa 
• absence from B.C. for more than 3 weeks 
 
You must provide any information requested by the BC PNP to verify that conditions of 
nomination continue to be met. Failure to abide by the conditions of nomination, including failure 
to provide requested information, may result in the cancellation of your nomination. 
 
If the BC PNP determines that you provided false or misleading information to the BC PNP, 
before or after nomination, your nomination may be cancelled. 
 
3.5 (C) Nomination 
 
Once your signed Conditions of Nomination declaration has been received by the BC PNP, you 
will be issued a confirmation of nomination as a provincial nominee.  
 
The nomination will allow you and your eligible dependent family members to 
apply for 
permanent residence to IRCC u nder the Provincial Nominee Class.   
  
Please note that the age(s) of your dependent children, if any, are locked in for the purpose of 
federal immigration requirements at the time you submit your registration to the BC PNP. For 
more information on federal requirements regarding the age of dependent children, please see 
IRCC’s website
. 
 
  

PAGE 51
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 3: EI – Regional: Step-by-Step Process 51 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
1. 
Preparation
2. BC PNP 
Registration
3. BC PNP 
Application
4. 
Work Permit
5. 
Nomination
6. 
Permanent 
Residence 
3.6. EI – Regional: After Nomination 
 
3.6 (A) Applying for Permanent Residence 
3.6 (B) Work Permit Extensions After Nomination 
 
 
 
 
3.6 (A) Applying for Permanent Residence 
 
As explained in the previous section, provincial nominees can apply to IRCC for permanent 
residence under the Provincial Nominee Class. Your confirmation of nomination
 is valid for 180 
days (approximately six months). You must apply for permanent residence prior to the expiry 
date on your confirmation of nomination. 
  
IRCC will assess your application for permanent residence to ensure you meet the security and 
admissibility requirements, including medical and security checks, and that you continue to meet 
the requirements of the Provincial Nominee class.  
 
If IRCC approves your application, you will be issued a permanent resident visa.  
 
For more information on applying for permanent residence and processing times, please visit 
IRCC’s website
. 
 
IMPORTANT: The BC PNP has no jurisdiction over whether or not IRCC will grant you permanent 
residence status in Canada. IRCC is the final decision-making authority on whether to issue you a 
permanent resident visa. 
 
IRCC may request additional information related to your application to ensure you continue to 
meet the conditions of nomination. 
 
3.6 (B) Work Permit Extensions After Nomination 
 
If you have already applied for permanent residence and your work permit is due to expire within 
180 days (approximately six months), the BC PNP will continue to provide work permit support as 
necessary. 
 
IRCC and/or the BC PNP may request evidence to confirm you continue to meet the conditions of 
your nomination.  
 
For more information about processing times for applying for a work permit, please visit 
IRCC’s 
website.  

PAGE 52
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 52 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Part 4: General Program Information   
 
Sections: 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination  
4.3. Request for Review 
4.4. Misrepresentation 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration 
4.6. Use of a Representative 
4.7. Definitions 
 
 
 
4.1. Withdrawing your Registration or Application 
You may withdraw your registration through BC PNP Online. Registration fees are non-
refundable. 
 
You may request a withdrawal of your application at any time by contacting the BC PNP at 
en.imm@gov.bc.ca
. Application fees are non-refundable. 
 
4.2. BC PNP Cancellation of your Nomination  
The BC PNP may cancel your nomination if you are found to have misrepresented, if you do not 
meet conditions to which you have agreed, or if you no longer meet the eligibility criteria for 
either the EI-Base stream or for admissibility to Canada as a permanent resident. 
 
Your nomination may be cancelled under section 6 of the Provincial Immigration Programs Act if 
you have: 
 
• failed to comply with your 
conditions of nomination  
• failed to inform the BC PNP of a material change 
• obstructed or interfered with an inspection 
• retained a paid representative who is not qualified under the Act 
• provided false or misleading information 
 
The decision to cancel your nomination is not subject to review under section 7 of the Act. 
 

PAGE 53
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 53 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Examples where an approval or nomination may be cancelled include, but are not limited to: 
 
• information provided in your application to the BC PNP was false or misleading 
• the conditions of nomination under which you were nominated are no longer being met: 
o for example, you have not maintained the terms and conditions of your 
performance agreement, including but not limited to: business type, business 
location, ownership percentage, job creation, investment, as well as the ongoing 
and active management of the business 
• you are no longer residing in B.C. and are, therefore, no longer eligible for the BC PNP 
• you are in Canada and are out of status 
o if your status has expired, and you cannot demonstrate you have applied for 
restoration of status within the 90-day eligibility period, you will be considered out 
of status 
• you are working in Canada without authorization 
• you are under a removal order in or outside of Canada 
 
4.3. Request for Review 
If the BC PNP refuses an application (i.e. declined under section 4(1)(b) of the Act), that person 
has a right to request a review of the decision.  
 
The purpose of a review is to determine whether the original decision was based on a fair 
process, and was within the range of decisions that could be reasonably supported by the 
evidence before the decision maker on the basis of the program criteria at the time of the 
decision. 
 
An applicant may only submit a request to review a decision issued by the BC PNP (i.e. not 
decisions issued by IRCC). The review process is limited to the following types of BC PNP 
decisions: 
 
• Entrepreneur Immigration registration disqualifications 
• Entrepreneur Immigration - stage 1 - application refusals 
• Entrepreneur Immigration - stage 2 - nomination refusals 
 
All requests for a review of a decision must be made within 30 calendar days of the date of the 
decision notice if the applicant is a resident in Canada, or 60 calendar days of the date of the 
decision notice if the applicant is not a resident in Canada. Please note that if you are currently 
living in Canada, the BC PNP will consider you to be a resident of Canada and you must submit 
your request for review within 30 calendar days. 
 

PAGE 54
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 54 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
A person whose approval has been cancelled under section 6 of the Act is not entitled to have 
that decision reviewed by the BC PNP under the internal review process set out in section 7 of the 
Act. 
 
The request for review must: 
• be in writing and must be submitted through BCPNP Online
 
• identify the grounds for the request 
• provide any information the BC PNP requests 
• pay the non-refundable request for review application fee 
 
A review is not a chance to submit new evidence or re-argue the evidence submitted in your 
application. Being unsatisfied with the final decision or a component of the decision is not 
sufficient grounds to vary or reverse a decision.  
 
Important information for those who choose to submit a request for review: 
• Only the applicant named on the decision notice may request a review. 
• The residential address provided in the online request for review form must be the 
applicant's current residential address. Forms that list the authorized representative's 
address will be considered incomplete and will not be processed. 
• The applicant is responsible for outlining how the decision was unreasonable or 
procedurally unfair. The review will be based on the information provided by the 
applicant. 
• The review will be conducted on the basis of the program criteria and evidence available 
at the time the application was declined. 
• You will receive an e-mail confirming your request has been received. 
 
Request for Review: Decision   
 
As soon after receiving a review request as it is practical to do so, the BC PNP must review the 
decision and either: 
 
• confirm the original decision, or 
• cancel the decision and re-evaluate the application  
 
Reviewed decisions are final decisions under the Act and Regulation. Subsequent requests for 
review, or requests for review submitted outside of the applicable 30- or 60-day periods, cannot 
be accepted. 
 
  

PAGE 55
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 55 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
4.4. Misrepresentation 
Misrepresentation is the action of providing false or misleading information and/or withholding 
or concealing information where the withholding or concealing tends to create a false or 
misleading impression of the circumstances. It is one of the reasons why a registration or 
application may be refused or a nomination may be cancelled. 
 
If an applicant and/or representative withholds, conceals, and/or provides information or 
documentation that they knew or ought to have known to be false in support of a BC PNP 
application, they have misrepresented. 
 
Examples of misrepresentation include:  
• submitting false or misleading information in an application or registration;  
• failing to disclose information relevant to an application or registration;  
• communicating directly or indirectly, by any means, false or misleading information, or 
concealing relevant information, in any communication with the BC PNP or otherwise 
during the assessment processes for registrations and applications  
 
Registrations and applications will not be approved when the BC PNP determines that the 
information provided has been altered, overstated or is purposefully misleading for the purpose 
of meeting program requirements or for the purpose of obtaining a higher registration score.  
 
A finding of misrepresentation can be applied to a registrant or applicant. If you have been found 
to have misrepresented information in your registration or application, the BC PNP may refuse to 
accept a future registration or application from you for up to two years. 
 
4.5. Refusal to Accept an Application or Registration 
The BC PNP may refuse to accept a new application or registration if: 
 
• an invitation for an application does not apply to that person 
• the person has retained a representative who does not meet the prescribed requirements, 
as described in section 4 of the Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation
 
• the applicant has had a previous approval cancelled by the BC PNP 
• the applicant has, in the two years immediately before the date of the application, been 
found by the BC PNP to have made a misrepresentation in a previous application
 
• the applicant has another active application with the BC PNP or an active Entrepreneur 
Immigration registration with the BC PNP.  

PAGE 56
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 56 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
  
4.6. Use of a Representative 
 
4.6 (A) Declaration and Consent 
4.6 (B) Authorized Paid Representatives 
4.6 (C) Unpaid Representatives  
4.6 (D) Changing Representatives 
4.6 (E) Complaints Against a Representative 
 
 
You are not required to use a paid or unpaid representative – such as an immigration consultant 
or lawyer – to register and/or apply to the BC PNP. The program is designed for you to be able to 
complete the process on your own if you choose to do so. 
 
The BC PNP scores all registrations for each stream under their respective criteria, and, if invited 
to apply, the BC PNP assesses all applications equally, regardless of whether they were prepared 
with the assistance of a representative. Your registration or application will not receive special 
attention, faster processing, or a more favourable outcome if it is submitted using the services of 
a representative. 
 
Some applicants choose to use a representative to provide immigration advice or to assist with 
the process.  
 
You must disclose if you have received assistance in preparing your registration and/or 
application from a person who is compensated or receives a benefit as a result of such 
assistance. Failure to declare such assistance may result in the refusal of the application or 
disqualification of the registration.  
 
A representative is authorized to act on your behalf with the BC PNP. If you pay someone to act 
as your representative, they must meet the requirements for authorized representatives stated 
below in Section 4.6 (B).  
 
 
4.6 (A) Declaration and Consent 
 
By completing the BC PNP use of a representative form, you have authorized the individual 
named on the form to represent you and act on your behalf with the BC PNP. This may include 
representation throughout the registration, application and assessment processes, and 
communication with program staff as required, including disclosure of personal or confidential 
information to your representative.  
 

PAGE 57
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 57 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
The legal declaration in the online registration or application is your legal signature. If your 
representative enters the registration or application on your behalf, you should review the 
information provided as you will be legally responsible for the accuracy of the form contents. 
BCPNP Online uses your personal email as the unique personal identifier for your profile. The 
email and contact information provided in your profile will be associated with the application in 
the system and will be used by BC PNP staff for communication of final decisions.  
 
At its discretion, the BC PNP may contact you directly to request additional evidence or 
information to verify information in your registration and/or application, and to determine if you 
meet or continue to meet all program requirements.  
 
The BC PNP will not communicate with any unauthorized third-party regarding your registration 
or application.   
 
4.6 (B) Authorized Paid Representatives 
 
In selecting a paid immigration representative, the BC PNP highly recommends that applicants 
confirm with their potential representative that they are members in good standing with their 
professional organization. 
 
The Act and Regulation restricts payment for representation to groups defined by section 91(2) of 
the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act: 
 
• immigration consultants who are full members in good standing of the 
College of 
Immigration and Citizenship Consultants (CCIC) 
 
• lawyers who are members in good standing of the Law Society of BC or another Canadian 
Law Society, the Nova Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du Quebec. 
 
4.6 (C) Unpaid Representatives 
 
You may use the services of an unpaid representative to act on your behalf. Unpaid 
representatives may include persons authorized under the Act and Regulation (see above), family 
members, friends, and members of non-governmental or religious organizations. 
 
The BC PNP only considers third-party representatives as unpaid if they do not charge fees or 
receive any other compensation or benefit for providing immigration advice or related services. 
 
If your unpaid representative is found by the Province to have charged fees for, or otherwise 
benefited from, acting as your representative, the Province will revoke that person’s eligibility to 
serve as your representative and may decline/cancel your application/approval to the BC PNP. 
 

PAGE 58
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 4: General Program Information 58 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
If you select an unpaid representative who also provides immigration advice to others for a fee, 
the BC PNP highly recommends that you confirm that your potential representative is a member 
in good standing of one of the organizations listed in 4.6 (B), and that they have not been found 
by the BC PNP to have made a misrepresentation within the last two years. 
 
4.6 (D) Changing Representatives 
 
If you change representatives or decide to no longer be represented, you must provide 
notification to the BC PNP. Failure to declare a change in representative may result in the refusal 
of your application. 
 
The BC PNP will communicate with the representative indicated in your profile. If you decide to 
change or remove your authorized representative, you must update this information in the My 
Representative tab on BC PNP Online.  
 
You are responsible for ensuring your profile is updated to reflect changes in representatives. 
 
You may only have one representative at any given time.  
 
If you wish to change your representative during the BC PNP registration and/or application 
process, you must update the information in the My Representative tab on BC PNP Online and 
submit a use of a representative form
 allowing your new representative to represent you and 
allow the BC PNP to disclose information to them.  
  
Filing a new use of a representative form will automatically cancel any previously appointed 
representative. 
 
4.6 (E) Complaints Against a Representative 
 
If you have a complaint about your representative, whether paid or unpaid, you may submit a 
complaint to the appropriate regulatory body: 
 
• If your authorized representative is a member of CICC
 
• If your authorized representative is a member of the Law Society of British Columbia  
• If your authorized representative is a member of another Canadian Law Society, the Nova 
Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du Quebec, contact the applicable 
professional organization. 
 
You may wish to refer to the IRCC website
, which contains a lot of information about using 
immigration representatives. 
 
 

PAGE 59
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 59 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 4.7. Definitions 
 
“Act” means the Provincial Immigration Programs Act. 
“certified court interpreter” means: 
a. A certified court interpreter who holds a current and valid membership to the Society of 
Translators and Interpreters of BC (STIBC); 
b. A certified court interpreter who holds a current and valid membership to a society 
belonging to the Canadian Translators, Terminologists and Interpreters Council (CTTIC); 
or, 
c. A graduate from the Court Interpreting Certificate Program from Vancouver Community 
College (VCC). 
 
“Director” means the Director of Provincial Immigration Programs, or persons acting for the 
Director. 
 
“paid representative” means: 
a. A lawyer who is a member in good standing of the Law Society of BC or any 
other 
Canadian Law Society, the Nova Scotia Barristers’ Society, or the Chambre des notaires du 
Quebec; or, 
b. An immigration consultant who is a full member in good standing of the College of 
Immigration and Citizenship Consultants. 
 
Regulation” means the Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation
 
 

PAGE 60
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 60 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 
Sections: 
5.1. Self-declared scores (140 points) 
5.1 (A) Experience and Business Ownership  
5.1 (B) Net Worth  
5.1 (C) Total Personal Investment  
5.1 (D) Job Creation  
5.1 (E) Community Population 
5.1 (F) B.C.’s Regions 
5.1 (G) Adaptability Factors  
5.2. Business Concept Scoring (60 points) 
5.2 (A) General Information 
5.2 (B) Commercial Viability  
5.2 (C) Transferability of Skills  
5.2 (D) Economic Benefits  
 
This section provides detailed information about EI – Regional registration scoring, including 
complete point tables and useful information on how to fill out your registration. 
 
Many sections of the registration have minimum eligibility scores. You must meet the minimum 
eligibility scores in each section to be entered into the qualified pool. 
 
 Scoring Sections Points 
Self-declared 
Experience & Ownership 24 
Net Worth 6 
Total Personal Investment 10 
Jobs 15 
Community Population 6 
B.C.’s Regions 12 
Adaptability 67 
Self-declared SUBTOTAL score 140 
Business 
concept 
Commercial Viability  30 
Transferability of Skills  15 
Economic Benefits 15 
Business concept SUBTOTAL score 60 
Maximum Score Available 200 
 

PAGE 61
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 61 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Your registration will be disqualified if: 
 
• you propose an ineligible business 
• you do not submit a valid referral form 
• you do not submit a valid language test result 
• you propose to purchase an existing business 
• you do not meet the minimum point requirements for any section 
 
You may have to provide evidence of any and all claims if you receive an invitation to apply. For 
information on documents required at the application stage, please refer to the Entrepreneur 
Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website. 
 
 
5.1. EI – Regional: Self-declared scores 
The BCPNP Online system will automatically assign points based on the information you provide. 
The BC PNP will verify this information and may adjust your score if necessary.   
 
5.1 (A) Experience and Business Ownership 
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on business 
and work experience requirements. 
 
You will receive points based on your business ownership and/or senior management work 
experience over the last 60 months.  
 
Please list all of your active business ownership and/or senior management work experience over 
the last 60 months. You will be assigned points in the experience section for periods that are 
not duplicated or overlaps in time.  
 
You may not claim senior management experience if you worked at the same business of which 
you owned more than 10 per cent during the same period of time. 
 
You must indicate the industry sector code(s) based on the NAICS code
 and the occupation 
code(s) from the NOC that best relate to your experience.  
 
  

PAGE 62
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 62 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You must score at least 8 points to meet the minimum requirements for this section. 
 
Experience Total Duration Points 
Business owner-manager experience 
Less than 12 months 0 
12 to 24 months 7 
25 to 36 months 12 
37 to 48 months 16 
49 to 59 months 19 
60 months or more 22 
Senior manager work experience 
Less than 24 months 0 
25 to 48 months 4 
49 to 59 months 8 
60 months or more 12 
Maximum Score Available 22 
 
In addition, you will be awarded points if you have owned 100 per cent of a business for at least 
36 of the most recent 60 months (three of the most recent five years). The 100 per cent 
ownership of the business may be shared between you, your spouse or common-law partner, 
and/or your dependent child(ren). 
 
Ownership Amount Points 
Business ownership 
Less than 36 months (three years) of 100% 
business ownership in the past five years 0 
100% ownership of a business for at least 
36 of the past 60 months (three of the last 
five years) 
2 
Maximum Score Available 2 
 
 
5.1 (B) Net Worth 
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on personal 
net worth requirements. 
 
You will receive points based on your total personal net worth including that of your spouse or 
common-law partner, and/or your dependent children, if applicable. 
 

PAGE 63
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 63 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You will have to provide information on the following: 
 
• current assets:  
o bank deposits (e.g. personal chequing and savings accounts) 
o liquid investments (e.g. stocks, bonds, term deposits redeemable within 12 months) 
o other liquid assets (you must specify) 
• other assets: 
o real property (e.g. real estate, personal and commercial property ownership) 
o business ownership (i.e. current book value of the per cent ownership of your 
business(es)) 
o pension funds and other assets (you must specify) 
• liabilities: 
o real property mortgage  
o other debts (e.g. personal loans, credit card debt) 
 
You must score at least 2 points in the total personal net worth section. 
 
Personal Net Worth Points 
Your total current assets (cash 
and liquid funds) 
Less than $10,000 0 
$10,000 to $49,999 1 
$50,000 to $199,999 2 
$200,000 or more 3 
Your total personal net worth 
Less than $300,000 0 
$300,000 to $999,999 2 
$1,000,000 or more 3 
Maximum Score Available 6 
 
 
5.1 (C) Total Personal Investment 
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on minimum 
investment requirements. 
  
You will receive points based on your proposed total personal investment for the business.  
 
The BCPNP Online
 registration form includes typical investment items as dropdown items. You 
may add investment item fields to the table by selecting other. 
 

PAGE 64
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 64 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You must score at least 6 points to meet the minimum requirement for this section.  
 
Total Personal Investment Points 
Less than $100,000 0 
$100,000 to $349,999 6 
$350,000 to $599,999 8 
$600,000 or more 10 
Maximum Score Available 10 
 
 
5.1 (D) Job Creation  
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on job 
creation requirements. 
  
You will receive points based on your proposed full-time equivalent (FTE) job creation for 
Canadian citizens or permanent residents. Your position and your spouse’s do not qualify as job 
creation. 
 
You will be disqualified if you do not demonstrate that you will create at least one FTE job.  
 
To identify the occupation and associated skill level, refer to the NOC
. The salary field represents 
the estimated annual salary of the position. 
 
You must score at least 10 points to meet the minimum requirement for this section. 
 
Total Proposed FTE Job Creation  Points 
Less than 1 0 
1 job 10 
2 to 4 jobs 11 
5 to 7 jobs 13 
8 jobs or more 15 
Maximum Score Available 15 

PAGE 65
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 65 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
5.1 (E) Community Population 
The BC PNP is focused on attracting investment to regional communities and in the BCPNP 
Online registration, higher points are awarded for investments proposed in communities with 
smaller populations.  
  
Community population sizes are identified in the EI – Regional – Community Profiles
 page of the 
BC PNP website. 
 
There is no minimum required score for this section. 
 
Community population Points 
40,000 – 75,000 1 
20,000 – 39,999 2 
15,000 – 19,999 3 
10,000 – 14,999 4 
5,000 – 9,999 5 
Less than 5,000 6 
Maximum Score Available 6 
 
 
  

PAGE 66
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 66 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.1 (F) B.C.’s Regions 
The BC PNP will assign additional points in your business concept for the location of the 
proposed business based on B.C.’s Regional Districts and development regions. There is no 
minimum required score for this section. 
 
 
  
B.C.’s Regions Points 
Lower Mainland / Southwest 
• Fraser Valley 
• Greater Vancouver 
• Squamish-Lillooet 
• Sunshine Coast 
1 
Vancouver Island and Coast 
• Alberni-Clayoquot 
• Capital  
• Central Coast 
• Comox Valley 
• Cowichan Valley 
• Mount Waddington 
• Nanaimo 
• Powell River 
• Strathcona 
2 
Thompson-Okanagan 
• Central Okanagan  
• Columbia-Shuswap 
• North Okanagan  
• Okanagan-Similkameen 
• Thompson-Nicola 
6 
Cariboo 
• Cariboo 
• Fraser-Fort George 
10 
Kootenay 
• Central Kootenay 
• East Kootenay 
• Kootenay Boundary 
10 
Nechako 
• Bulkley-Nechako 12 
North Coast 
• Kitimat-Stikine 
• Skeena-Queen Charlotte 
12 
Northeast 
• Northern Rockies 
• Peace River 
12 
Maximum Score Available 12 

PAGE 67
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 67 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.1 (G) Adaptability Factors 
 
(i) Language Proficiency  
(ii) Education 
(iii) Age 
(iv) Canadian Experience 
(v) Family in the Community 
The BC PNP will consider adaptability factors and assign points for these factors as part of the 
registration score. Most of the factors are not mandatory requirements of the BC PNP but are 
indicators to support the likelihood of your economic establishment in B.C.  
  
For information on required documents for a complete application, please refer to the 
Entrepreneur Immigration Application Guide available on the BC PNP website
. 
  
There is no minimum required score for the adaptability section.  
  
(i) Language Proficiency 
 
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on 
language proficiency requirements. 
  
Points are awarded according to the lowest Canadian Language Benchmark (CLB) score 
obtained in each of the four competencies: listening, speaking, reading and writing. 
  
You must demonstrate that you possess a minimum of CLB level 4. You must upload a 
scanned copy of your valid language test result with your registration. 
 
You must score at least 5 points to meet the minimum requirement for this section. 
 
(ii) Education 
 
The EI – Regional requirements section of this Guide provides detailed information on 
education. 
 
You will receive points for your highest level of completed education that is recognized in 
Canada. 
 
If you are invited to apply, you will be required to provide evidence of your education, and 
you may be required to provide an education credential assessment
.  
 

PAGE 68
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 68 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
If your score for Education Level is 0, you will not be eligible to register unless you have at 
least 36 months (three years) of active management experience of a business that you had 
100 per cent ownership in the last 60 months (five years).  
 
(iii) Age 
 
The BC PNP does not have any age requirements or age limits. However, your age will be 
assigned points in the BCPNP Online registration. 
 
(iv) Canadian Experience 
 
The BC PNP will assign points if you possess any of the following experience obtained in 
Canada within the last 10 years:  
 
o Canadian, full-time work experience: You have legally worked in Canada for at least 
12 consecutive months in any occupation, which may include the active 
management of a business under your ownership in Canada. During this time, you 
must have had a valid Canadian work permit to claim this experience. 
 
o Full-time studies in Canada: You have legally studied in Canada under a secondary or 
post-secondary program for at least 12 consecutive months (including scheduled 
breaks such as winter and summer breaks and holidays – a minimum of two 
consecutive semesters). During this time, you must have had a valid Canadian 
study permit to claim this experience. 
 
Points will not be assigned for language training such as English as a second language.  
 
(v) Family in the Community 
 
The BC PNP will assign points if you have an immediate family member who lives in the 
community in which you intend to establish your business. The family member must have 
been living in the community for at least 12 months prior to your registration. 
 
Immediate family members include your spouse or common-law partner, mother, father, 
sister(s), brother(s), child(ren), mother-in-law, father-in-law, sister(s)-in-law, and brother(s)-
in-law. 
 
You will be required to provide evidence of their residence in the community at the 
application stage. 
 
  

PAGE 69
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 69 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Adaptability Factor Points 
Language proficiency 
None or minimal, equivalent to CLB 3 and below 0 
Basic understanding, equivalent to CLB 4 5 
Intermediate understanding, equivalent to CLB 5 10 
Intermediate understanding, equivalent to CLB 6 15 
Advanced to fluent, equivalent to CLB 7 or higher 23 
Education level 
Secondary school or less 0 
Associate degree 
6 Diploma / certificate (non-trades) 
Diploma / certificate (trades) 
Bachelor’s degree 
14 
Post-graduate diploma / certificate 
Master’s degree 
16 
Doctorate / PhD 
Age 
Less than 25 2 
25 – 29 8 
30 – 44 16 
45 – 54 10 
55 – 64 4 
65 or older 0 
Canadian work 
experience, business 
experience, or studies 
from within Canada for 
at least 12 months (last 
10 years) 
Less than 12 months 0 
12 to 24 months of work/business or studies in 
Canada (with authorization) 4 
More than 24 months of work experience or studies 
in Canada (with authorization) 8 
Family member living in 
the community for at 
least 12 months 
No 0 
Yes 4 
Maximum Score Available 67 
 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 70
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 70 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.2. EI – Regional: Business Concept Scoring 
 
5.2 (A) General information 
5.2 (B) Commercial Viability 
5.2 (C) Transferability of Skills 
5.2 (D) Economic Benefits 
You must propose to establish a new business in a participating community in B.C. The business 
concept of the registration is similar to an executive summary that provides high-level 
information about your proposed business plan. 
 
If you are invited to apply, you will be required to submit a comprehensive business plan as part 
of your application. 
 
5.2 (A) General Information 
You must answer questions and provide details of your business concept specific to your 
proposal. Your proposed business concept will be scored by the BC PNP.  
 
For all registrations, you will be asked to provide details of the following: 
 
• description of the business model and its operations: what will the business do and how 
will it do it? 
• description of the types of goods and/or services the business will provide 
• your proposed job title and duties, and how your qualifications relate to the proposed 
business 
• description of how your business will be commercially viable: what is your market entry 
strategy? 
• description and rationale for your staffing requirements 
 
Do not include general market research or statistics in your business concept. 
 
In the business concept section, you will be also required to indicate whether you are proposing 
any of the following: 
 
• franchise business: 
If you are proposing to establish a new franchise location, you must provide details on the 
franchisor. In addition, you must identify any franchisor conditions or restrictions on 
approving you as a franchisee, and describe the franchisor response to your request for a 

PAGE 71
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 71 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
proposed new location. For more information on franchise businesses, please refer to the 
business requirements section. 
 
• partnership with local partner(s): 
If you are proposing to partner with a local businessperson, you must provide a rationale 
for the business partnership and describe your business relationship with each partner. 
You must identify the partner(s), their proposed ownership percentage, whether the local 
partner(s) will make any investment into the business, and what role, if any, the partner(s) 
will have in the business. 
 
For complete information on business requirements, including detailed explanations of factors 
within the business concept, please refer to the business requirements section of this Guide
. 
 
There is no minimum score requirement for the business concept section. 
 
Your business concept will be scored on the following factors: 
 
Business Concept Factors Points 
Commercial viability: 
(a) Business model 
(b) Market and products/services 
(c) Eligible personal investment 
(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
(e) Ownership percentage 
30 
Transferability of skills: 
(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
(b) Senior manager work experience only 
15 
Economic benefits: 
(a) Significant economic benefits 
(b) Jobs assessment 
15 
Maximum Score Available 60 
 
 
 
  

PAGE 72
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 72 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
5.2 (B) Commercial Viability 
 
5.2 (B)(a) Business model 
5.2 (B)(b) Market and products/services 
5.2 (B)(c) Eligible personal investment 
5.2 (B)(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
5.2 (B)(e) Ownership percentage 
 
The BC PNP will assess your business concept and assign points based on the commercial 
viability of your proposed business.  
 
Overall Commercial Viability Points 
Business model 12 
Market & products/services 4 
Eligible personal investment 4 
Assessment of proposed personal investment 8 
Ownership percentage 2 
Maximum Score Available 30 
 
5.2 (B)(a) Business model 
 
You must describe how your proposed business will generate revenue and profit, and how the 
business will have the potential for sustained commercial success under your management. 
 
You will receive points for your business model based on the following table: 
 
Business Model Points 
Unsatisfactory / Unclear 1 
Fair / Good 8 
Excellent 12 
Maximum Score Available 12 
 
  

PAGE 73
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 73 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
The business model is assessed based on the following criteria: 
 
• An unsatisfactory/unclear business model (1 point) will be determined if any of the 
following are identified: 
 
o business model does not clearly identify and/or describe the business operation 
from start to finish 
o business model does not clearly identify the products and/or services being offered 
o proposed scale of business is not consistent with industry/regional norms 
o business concept does not provide details of applicant’s proposed role  
o business concept does not provide substantive information on local business 
partner (if applicable) 
o business concept is materially inconsistent with the community referral  
 
• A fair/good business model (8 points) will be determined if all of the following are met: 
 
o business model is clearly identified and describes the business operation from start 
to finish 
o business model clearly identifies the products and/or services being offered 
o proposed scale of business is consistent with industry/regional norms 
o business concept provides substantive information on local business partner (if 
applicable) 
o business concept is materially consistent with the community referral 
  
• An excellent business model (10 points) will be determined if, in addition to core 
requirements for fair/good, the business concept also meets at least 3 of the following 
factors: 
 
o proposed investment and jobs plan are consistent with the business model (must 
score 8 points for assessment of investment and score 10 points for jobs 
assessment) 
o business model identifies a clear strategy to become commercially viable 
o business model’s operational plan is internally consistent 
o applicant’s proposed duties with the business are consistent with applicant’s 
experience 
 
5.2 (B)(b) Market and products/services: 
 
You must provide an effective market entry strategy to show how your proposed business will be 
successful in British Columbia.  
  
You must describe the types of products and/or services that will be offered. Describe the 
uniqueness of the product(s) and/or service(s). 

PAGE 74
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 74 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You will receive points for your market and products/services based on the following table:  
 
Market & Product Points 
Does not satisfactorily address any of the market/product factors 1 
Addresses at least one of the market/product factors, and is 
consistent with business model 4 
Maximum Score Available 4 
 
Scoring will be based on whether the registrant demonstrates at least 1 of 4 critical factors, 
which are consistent with the business model: 
 
• Competitive edge: the product/service offers distinction from its potential competitors.  If 
local competitors offer the same or similar product/service, then it does not offer 
substantive distinction. 
 
• High-value: the proposed product/service will be a specialized product/service that is 
differentiated from generic, mid to low-value products/services. 
 
• New product/service: the product/service is “new to the market” or “new to the world”. The 
business concept should demonstrate that the product/service is not locally available. 
 
• Competitive analysis / market entry strategy: business concept provides a competitive 
analysis that identifies current/potential competitors, how to make the product/service 
unique or distinguishable, how to attract the target market, strengths and weaknesses of 
current and potential competitors, and how the proposed business’s competitive 
advantage and how it will effectively enter the market. 
 
5.2 (B)(c) Eligible personal investment 
 
The BC PNP will determine the eligibility of your proposed investment and assign you points. For 
detailed information on eligible and ineligible investments, refer to the 
investment requirements 
section of the Guide. 
  
This proposed investment must be made from your own personal funds. External financing, 
including mortgages and loans, will not be considered toward your personal investment. 
 
You must score at least 1 point to meet the minimum requirement for this section.  
 
 
 

PAGE 75
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 75 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
You will receive points for your proposed eligible personal investment based on the following 
table:  
Eligible Personal Investment Points 
Less than $100,000  0 
$100,000 to $299,999 1 
$300,000 to $499,999 2 
$500,000 to $799,999 3 
$800,000 or more 4 
Maximum Score Available 4 
 
5.2 (B)(d) Assessment of proposed personal investment 
 
You must describe your proposed investments. The BC PNP will assess your proposed 
investments and assign you a score in your business concept based on whether the expenditure 
is deemed essential to establish and operate a new business. Your proposed personal investment 
will also be considered against the type and scope of the proposed business, the market, the 
products/services, the business model, and the industry and/or local standards. 
 
Assessment of Proposed Personal Investment Points 
Investment proposal does not correspond to the type or scale of the business 0 
Investment proposal corresponds to the type and scale of the business 5 
Investment proposal corresponds to the type and scale of the business, the 
market, the proposed products and/or services, the business model, and the 
industry standard. 
8 
Maximum Score Available 8 
 
The assessment of proposed personal investment is based on the following criteria: 
 
• Unsubstantiated (0 points): the proposed investments are not substantiated, or appear 
overstated and/or unreasonable based on the type and scale of the business.  
 
• Substantiated (5 points): the investment appears to correspond to the type and scale of 
the business given the information provided. 
 
• Well-substantiated and researched (8 points): the proposed investments are detailed and 
substantiated in the business concept, which demonstrates that the registrant has 
conducted a significant amount of due diligence. The investment appears to correspond 

PAGE 76
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 76 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
to the type and scale of the business as well as the market, the proposed products and/or 
services, the business model, and the industry standard. 
 
5.2 (B)(e) Ownership percentage 
 
You must demonstrate you will own at least 51 per cent of the business in B.C. 
 
You must score at least 1 point to meet the minimum requirement for this section.  
 
You will receive points for ownership percentage based on the following table:  
 
Ownership percentage Points 
100% ownership 2 
Between 51% and 99.99% 1 
Less than 51% 0 
Maximum Score Available 2 
 
  

PAGE 77
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 77 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.2 (C) Transferability of Skills 
 
5.2 (C)(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
5.2 (C)(b) Senior manager work experience only 
Transferable skills are assessed by considering the similarity of the industry of your 
business/work experience to that of your proposed business in B.C.  
 
You will be assigned points for your transferable skills at the registration stage, and if you are 
invited to apply, the BC PNP will assess your transferable skills at the application stage. 
 
You will receive points based on your direct experience and/or experience in related 
industries for the last 60 months (5 years). 
 
• Direct experience is defined as experience gained in the same industry group, as defined 
by the first four digits of the proposed NAICS
 code. 
 
• Related experience is defined as experience gained in the same economic subsector, as 
defined by the first three digits of the proposed NAICS code.  
 
To identify the industry sector, please refer to the NAICS
.  
 
The BC PNP will confirm the registrant’s entered NAICS code corresponds to the registrant’s 
industry experience.  
 
Definitions of active business owner-manager and senior manager are described in the 
personal requirements section of this Guide
.  
 
You will be assigned points in the transferable skills section for periods that are not duplicated 
in time. 
 
Transferability of Skills Points 
Business owner-manager experience only 15 
Senior manager work experience only 10 
Maximum Score Available 15 
 
If you have both business owner-manager and senior manager work experience during the most 
recent 60-month period, points will be assigned for the most relevant experience that is not 
duplicated or overlaps in time with other experience claimed. The BC PNP will assign you the 
highest points available based the BC PNP’s assessment of the information you provide. 

PAGE 78
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 78 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
5.2 (C)(a) Business owner-manager experience only 
Business Owner-Manager Experience Points 
Less than 12 months 0 
12 to 35 months (related experience) 2 
12 to 35 months (direct experience) 5 
36 to 59 months (related experience) 6 
36 to 59 months (direct experience) 10 
60 months (related experience) 12 
60 months (direct experience) 15 
Maximum Score Available 15 
 
5.2 (C)(b) Senior manager work experience only 
Senior Manager Work Experience Only Points 
Less than 12 months 0 
12 to 35 months (related experience) 1 
12 to 35 months (direct experience) 4 
36 to 59 months (related experience) 5 
36 to 59 months (direct experience) 6 
60 months (related experience) 8 
60 months (direct experience) 10 
Maximum Score Available 10 

PAGE 79
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 79 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
5.2 (D) Economic Benefits 
 
5.2 (D)(a) Significant economic benefits 
5.2 (D)(b) Jobs assessment 
You will receive points based on the potential to add economic benefits to British Columbia. The 
BC PNP will review your registration and assign points for the following factors used to 
demonstrate the economic benefits of the proposed business in B.C. You must substantiate your 
proposed economic benefit factors. 
 
Overall Economic Benefit Points Points 
Significant economic benefits 5 
Jobs assessment 10 
Maximum Score Available 15 
 
5.2 (D)(a) Significant economic benefits 
 
The following significant economic benefits that the proposed business may demonstrate: 
  
• Adopting new technology: the new technology must not already be in regular use in 
similar businesses in British Columbia 
• Employing innovative approaches to traditional businesses (e.g. more efficient processes) 
that are not already in regular use by similar businesses in B.C. 
• Increasing exports: manufacturing businesses that will engage in significant export 
activity. This definition does not include businesses that facilitate export/trade such as 
trading companies or agencies. 
• Readiness to commercialize a proprietary new technology on which R&D is complete 
• Indigenous Peoples and First Nations: partnering with First Nations communities for 
businesses that affect the First Nation community, and/or largely benefit First Nations 
communities and/or Indigenous peoples. Registrants must be able to provide evidence of 
significant interaction with Indigenous Peoples in British Columbia, such as a 
memorandum of understanding. 
 
• Providing products or services to an under-served local or regional market for which there 
is a demonstrated demand 
• Providing training and support services that facilitate the growth of the technology sector 
in British Columbia. 
 

PAGE 80
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 80 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Significant Economic Benefit Scoring Points 
Does not identify or substantiate any significant economic benefit 0  
Substantiates at least one significant economic benefit 5 
Maximum Score Available 5 
 
5.2 (D)(b) Jobs assessment 
 
The BC PNP will assess your jobs plan based on the type and scope of the proposed business, the 
market, the proposed products and/or services, the business model, and the industry standard. 
 
You must score at least 1 point to meet the minimum requirement for this section. 
 
Jobs Assessment Scoring Points 
The business concept does not support the creation of at least 1 FTE 
position 0 
Jobs plan does not correspond to the type and scale of the business 1 
Jobs plan corresponds to the type and scale of the business 10 
Maximum Score Available 10 
 
The jobs assessment is based on the following criteria: 
 
• Does not support minimum eligibility criteria (0 points): the jobs plan provides insufficient 
or incomplete information where the BC PNP cannot determine whether the business 
concept supports the creation of the minimum FTE requirement. Or, the jobs plan only 
proposes the creation of occupations that are typically contracted out or do not meet the 
minimum 30 hours per week (or 1,560 hours per year). 
 
• Unsubstantiated (1 point): the proposed job creation plan is not substantiated, or appears 
overstated and/or unreasonable based on the type and scale of the business and/or 
industry norms.  
 
• Substantiated (10 points): the jobs plan appears consistent with the business model and 
corresponds to the type and scale of the business.  Satisfactory information provided. 
 

PAGE 81
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 81 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
Notes 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

PAGE 82
  
BC PNP EI – Regional Program Guide | Part 5: EI – Regional Registration Scoring Guide 82 
  The information in this guide is effective May 27, 2024. Please check our website to ensure you are using the correct version. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BC Provincial Nominee Program 
450-605 Robson Street 
Vancouver, B.C. V6B 5J3 
Canada 
 
E-mail: En.Imm@gov.bc.ca 
Website: www.WelcomeBC.ca/PNP 
 
 
 