Home
Immigrate to B.C.
For employers
For employers
Last updated:
February 10, 2026
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) offers a pathway to permanent residency for workers with the experience and qualifications needed in British Columbia. Through one of its Skills Immigration streams, the BC PNP provides employers with a tool to retain workers who do not have permanent resident status in Canada.
With their employer's support, workers who are successfully nominated by the BC PNP can apply for permanent residence in Canada.
To learn more, please see the topics below.
Expand All
Collapse All
Supporting a BC PNP application
Employers supporting a BC PNP application means they have offered jobs to workers who do not have permanent resident status in Canada, and wish to use the BC PNP to retain them. This entails agreeing to sign an Employer Declaration Form to support their employee's application, including providing documents to meet the program's requirements.
Workers who have registered to the program and have received an invitation to apply have 30 days to gather required documentation to apply. To support their employee's application, employers must provide the following:
BC PNP
Employer Declaration Form
Recommendation letter
Copy of the signed job offer
Detailed job description
Evidence of recruitment efforts
Company information
Copy of the Certificate of Incorporation or legal equivalent
Copy of Municipal Business License
National Safety Code Program
number (for commercial vehicle operators only)
Please note:
Employers supporting BC PNP applicants are not required to have a federal Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) to hire a foreign worker.
The BC PNP may contact you, or conduct a site visit to your workplace, to confirm employee and employer requirements.
The program prioritizes specific occupations that meet the labour market and economic development needs of British Columbia. To learn more, please see the BC PNP's
selection of workers list
.
Requirements
Employers must meet certain requirements to be eligible to support a BC PNP application. They must:
be established in B.C.
be in compliance with government laws, regulations and ordinances
meet domestic labour market recruitment requirements
offer wage in line with industry standards, and
offer full-time, permanent employment*.
* BC PNP Tech occupations, including university professors, lecturers, and post-doctoral fellows working for a public university in B.C., are not required to have a permanent job offer.
For more information about employer requirements, including a list of ineligible employers, please see the
Skills Immigration Program Guide
.
Responsibilities
Employers supporting a BC PNP application have a responsibility to inform the BC PNP if there are any changes in their employee’s status. This includes, among others:
the employee finding another job
the employee quitting or being terminated, or
the business closing or changing ownership.
Similarly, employers must not misrepresent information and/or falsify documentation when supporting a BC PNP application. The BC PNP may refuse to accept applications supported by employers who commit misrepresentation or falsification for up to two years.
For further questions, please send an email to
PNPInfo@gov.bc.ca
.
Sign up for email updates
Be fraud aware