Home
Immigrate to B.C.
About the BC Provincial Nominee Program
News
News
Last updated:
August 26, 2026
August 26, 2026
BC PNP Statistical Report and Year in Review 2025 released
The BC PNP has released its Statistical Report and Year in Review for 2025.
The Report presents statistical information about the program, including the number of nominations issued, occupations, salaries, countries of origin, and regional distribution of nominees throughout the province. The Report also highlights strategic priorities set by the Province and performance measures used to monitor results.
This year’s report continues the ‘Year in Review’ section, first introduced in 2022, providing an overview of the BC PNP’s key accomplishments in 2025, especially in areas identified as program priorities.
The Report and previous reports from 2016 to 2024 are available on the
Archives
page.
August 18, 2026
BC PNP receives additional allocation for 2026
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) has received an additional 1,000 nominations from the federal government, resulting in an allocation of 6,254 for 2026. These nominations will be applied to the updated program objectives announced on
April 23, 2026
.
The BC PNP plans to use its full allocation by December 31, 2026.
August 13, 2026
BC PNP extends registration intake for Temporary Rural/Remote Health Support Initiative to October 2026
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) is extending the registration period for the Temporary Rural/Remote Health Support Initiative. Registrations for this initiative will now be accepted until 11:59 pm on October 7, 2026.
This extension is being made to account for any wildfire-related impacts.
Information about the eligibility criteria for the temporary initiative is included in the Skills Immigration Program Guide. Instructions about how to submit a registration or application can be found in the Skills Immigration Application Guide. Both guides are available on the
Documents
page.
June 24, 2026
B.C. Newcomers’ Guide now available in six new languages
The Province is expanding access to the 2025 B.C. Newcomers’ Guide with the release of six language editions, helping people arriving in British Columbia access important information more easily.
Beginning June 2026, print and PDF versions of the guide will be available in French, Simplified Chinese, Punjabi, Spanish, Arabic and Tagalog, in addition to English. Newcomers can also download the guide online or order printed copies through
WelcomeBC.ca
. To further support accessibility, online translation is also available in more than 200 languages.
The B.C. Newcomers’ Guide provides key information about settling in the province, including topics such as health care, housing, education, employment, driver’s licences and other services.
Information Bulletin
June 15, 2026
BC PNP now accepting registrations for the Temporary Rural/Remote Health Support Initiative
The BC Provincial Nominee Program is now accepting registrations for the Temporary Rural/Remote Health Support Initiative.
Up to 250 candidates will be nominated under this initiative, and the first invitation will be issued in the coming weeks. Registration for this initiative will close on August 31, 2026 at 11:59 pm.
BC PNP applications are assessed against the criteria and policies in place at the time an application is submitted. The eligibility criteria for the temporary initiative can be found in the Skills Immigration Program Guide.
For instructions about how to submit a registration or application, please refer to the Skills Immigration Application Guide.
Current and previous editions of all guides can be found on our
Documents
page.
May 28, 2026
New edition of BC PNP Skills Immigration Guides now in effect
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) has released an updated Skills Immigration Program Guide, providing detailed information on the program changes announced on April 23, 2026. The updated guide is effective as of May 28, 2026.
The updated guide also explains the eligibility criteria and requirements for the Temporary Rural / Remote Health Support initiative. Registration for the temporary one-time initiative will be open from June 15 to August 31, 2026.
In addition, the BC PNP has updated the Skills Immigration Application Guide (formerly the BC PNP Technical Guide) to reflect current application processes.
BC PNP applications are assessed against the criteria and policies in place at the time an application is submitted. Current and previous editions of all Guides can be found on the
Documents
page.
Upcoming Webinar
The BC PNP will host a webinar regarding the program’s CARE objective, with a primary focus on the Temporary Rural / Remote Health Support initiative. The webinar will be held on June 10, 2026 and is intended for:
Prospective applicants who meet the eligibility criteria
Employers supporting BC PNP applications
Sign up for the webinar
.
Please note that registration may be limited to the intended audience. Additional webinars may occur later in the year based on demand.
April 23, 2026
BC Provincial Nominee Program Priorities and Program Updates
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) delivers strong economic outcomes and has been updated to support B.C.’s
Look West strategy
, with a renewed focus on attracting top talent and addressing critical labour market needs. These updates are guided by three core objectives:
(1)
Care
—strengthening healthcare and other services within the care economy;
(2)
Build
—supporting the delivery of infrastructure and major projects; and
(3)
Innovate
—advancing innovation to help drive long term economic growth.
These changes will benefit all regions of B.C., with at least 35% of all nominations anticipated to be for candidates working in communities outside Metro Vancouver.
Care
The BC PNP will prioritize skilled workers that support public services and community well-being. This includes
36 in-demand occupations
in healthcare, education, childcare, and veterinary care.
The BC PNP Health Authority stream will continue to nominate qualified healthcare professionals who work in the public sector directly delivering healthcare services. The program will also nominate select healthcare occupations working in the broader health sector.
Certified early childhood educators, veterinarians and veterinary technologists who are working toward Canadian certification will be prioritized.
The BC PNP will also leverage
additional federal allocations that are available to support francophone recruitment
by prioritizing French speaking teachers working for the province’s public K-12 school system.
Temporary time-limited initiative
The BC PNP will deliver a time-limited, one-time initiative to retain up to 250 workers already working for a health authority in a cleaning or security role in a rural or remote community who meet program criteria. This initiative will open in June 2026 to registrations using the BC PNP’s expression of interest system. More information will be provided before intake opens.
Build
To support construction delivery and major infrastructure projects, the BC PNP will prioritize certified workers in
9 key in-demand skilled trades
.
Innovate
Attracting top talent across all sectors is key to driving innovation and long-term economic growth in B.C. The BC PNP will continue to conduct High Economic Impact invitations to apply (ITA) that target top talent in all sectors so that highly qualified professionals and entrepreneurs can be nominated to support economic growth as part of the province’s Look West strategy.
Other Program Changes
The BC PNP is making several important program changes that are aligned with the program’s updated objectives and limited number of available nominations:
The Entry Level and Semi Skilled (ELSS) stream is officially closed.
The last invitations for this stream were issued on December 10, 2024. ELSS will soon be removed from the registration system and Program Guide. Individuals who were planning to apply under the ELSS stream may wish to explore alternative pathways to immigrate to BC.
The BC PNP will not be launching new student streams.
International student graduates may wish to explore alternative pathways to immigrate to B.C. through existing BC PNP streams.
Completion of studies in B.C./Canada will continue to receive additional registration points under the BC PNP.
The final draw for BC PNP priority technology occupations occurred on December 3, 2024. Going forward, the BC PNP will continue to issue targeted invitations for individuals creating high economic impact in B.C. to capture top talent across all sectors, including technology. All occupations on the previous technology occupations list remain eligible for the BC PNP.
The list of priority occupations related to healthcare and construction has been updated, and the program will be expanding the list of ineligible occupations and employers to focus nominations on priorities, strengthen program integrity, and ensure that British Columbians have opportunities in these roles.
More details about the changes will be included in an updated BC PNP Skills Immigration Program Guide which will be posted on the
Documents page
in the near future.
Strong Outcomes
Since 2022, the BC PNP shifted to be more strategic in its selection through prioritization of key occupations to support government priorities. The program has nominated:
3,887 healthcare professionals
, including
475 doctors
and
1,228 nurses and nurse practitioners
2,957 licensed childcare workers
826 construction and trades workers
after targeting select certified trades
26 veterinarians
and
116 veterinary technologists
, many working outside Metro Vancouver
Over 38% of Skills Immigration nominees are working in regional communities, supporting population and economic growth across B.C.
Looking Ahead
B.C. continues to advocate to the federal government for increased provincial nominee allocations in 2026 and future years to support public services, major projects and infrastructure, economic growth, and regional communities across the province.
February 26, 2026
March is Fraud Prevention Month
Fraud Prevention Month is an annual campaign to raise public awareness of fraud. This year, the BC PNP is focusing on helping employers and prospective immigrants identify, avoid, and report immigration scams.
Please visit our
fraud awareness page
to learn important information, print a fraud awareness brochure, or take a fraud awareness quiz to test your knowledge.
January 22, 2026
BC PNP updates Skills Immigration application fee
Effective January 22, 2026, the BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) is increasing the Skills Immigration application fee from $1,475 to $1,750.
The BC PNP provides immigration pathways for skilled international workers and eligible foreign entrepreneurs seeking permanent residency for themselves and their dependents. It is a strategic immigration tool for attracting talent in high‑demand occupations and supporting regional economic growth in B.C.
For detailed fee information, please
visit the BC PNP For Workers
page.
To see news posts from previous years, please visit the
Archives
page.
Sign up for email updates