Home
Immigrate to B.C.
For workers
For workers
Last updated:
May 28, 2026
Pathway to permanent residency as a worker
The BC Provincial Nominee Program (BC PNP) offers a pathway to permanent residency for workers with the experience and qualifications needed in British Columbia. Through Skills Immigration, workers who meet specific eligibility criteria based on their job offer can choose to apply to the Skilled Worker or Health Authority stream.
To view eligibility and requirements for the Temporary Rural / Remote Health Support initiative, see the
Skills Immigration Program Guide
.
Applicants who are successfully nominated by the BC PNP through one of its immigration streams can apply for permanent residence in Canada.
Please note:
the program prioritizes workers who meet the labour market and economic development needs of B.C. To learn more, please see the BC PNP's
selection of workers list
.
Expand All
Collapse All
Eligibility and requirements
Please review the table below to determine which Skills Immigration stream best suits to you:
Criteria
Skilled Worker stream
Health Authority stream
Eligibility
Job offer
Must be in a
NOC TEER
0, 1, 2, or 3 occupation
Must be in a
Health Authority-eligible occupation
Requirements
Employment
Must have a full-time, indeterminate (no end date) job offer from an eligible B.C. employer
Must have a full-time, indeterminate (no end date) job offer from a B.C. health authority employer
Employer
support
Must have the support of your employer before registering and submit a completed
Employer Declaration Form
Must have the support of an authorized personnel from your health authority employer before applying and submit a completed
Employer Declaration Form
Qualifications
Must meet the minimum qualification credentials required for your occupation (e.g., license, registration, professional certification and membership, etc.)
Must meet the minimum qualification credentials required for your occupation (e.g., license, registration, professional certification and membership, etc.)
Work
experience
Must have a minimum of two (2) years full-time equivalent work experience
Must meet the work experience required by the BC PNP and your B.C. health authority employer
Education
Must meet the minimum education credential required for your occupation (e.g., certificate, diploma, or degree)
Must meet the minimum education credential required by your B.C. health authority employer
Language
proficiency
Must meet the minimum language requirement of Canadian Language Benchmark level 4
Must meet the minimum language requirement of Canadian Language Benchmark level 4
Wage
Must meet minimum wage and income requirements
Must meet minimum wage and income requirements
Please note:
there are exceptions to table above. For complete information about eligibility and requirements, please see the
Skills Immigration Program Guide.
Ineligible occupations
The following occupations are not eligible for any Skills Immigration stream:
Administrative Professionals
12100 Executive assistants
12101 Human resources and recruitment officers
12200 Accounting technicians and bookkeepers
13100 Administrative officers
13110 Administrative assistants
13111 Legal administrative assistants
13112 Medical administrative assistants
Sales and Service Workers
62010 Retail sales supervisors
62020 Food service supervisors
63101 Real estate agents and salespersons
Religious occupations
41302 Religious leaders
42204 Religious workers
Fees
The BC PNP charges fees to process applications. These fees cover the cost of administering the program, including providing support services to nominees until they become permanent residents.
Process
Fee
Registration
no fee
Application
$1,750 CAD
Request for review
$500 CAD
Please note:
Fees will only be refunded if you withdraw your application before the BC PNP begins to assess it. Request for review fees are non-refundable.
Fee payments can only be made in the
BC PNP Online User Portal
. The BC PNP does not accept payments any other way (e.g., cheques, bank transfers, wire transfers, or gift cards). If you are asked to pay fees in another way, please report this to
PNP.fraud.tips@gov.bc.ca
. For more information, visit the BC PNP’s
fraud awareness page.
You will need to pay a separate fee when you submit your permanent residence application to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC). You may also have to pay fees to IRCC to apply for, or extend, your work permit. For more information, please visit
IRCC’s fees page
.
Process
There are four key components to the Skills Immigration process:
registration
(if applicable),
invitation
(if applicable),
application
, and
decision
. Each process has its own unique requirements. Review the information on this website and in the
Skills Immigration Program Guide
before getting started. Once you are ready, follow the steps below:
Choose your stream
Register online
Wait for an invitation to apply
Submit your BC PNP application
Wait for your nomination decision
Submit your IRCC application
Choose your stream
Workers who meet specific eligibility criteria based on their job offer can choose to apply to one of the following streams: Skilled Worker stream, or Health Authority stream. Review the eligibility and requirements of each stream to determine the best one that suits you.
Please note:
the Skilled Worker and Health Authority streams have Express Entry BC (EEBC) option. You might be eligible for the EEBC option if you are in the federal Express Entry pool and meet the criteria for one of these immigration streams. If you are nominated using the EEBC option, your federal profile will receive more points and your federal permanent residence application may be processed faster.
Once you have chosen your stream, and you have decided if you will use the EEBC option, you are ready to register.
Register online
Registering is your to way express interest in the program. You must do so using the
BC PNP Online User Portal
. Once you have signed in, create a profile and select your stream.
Please note:
if you decide to use the EEBC option, select the stream that starts with Express Entry BC. This ensures that your nomination is connected to your IRCC profile in the Express Entry system. Once you have selected a stream, complete all sections of the registration.
After registering, you will receive a score based on the information you provided. Your registration will be scored based on human capital factors such as your work experience, education and language proficiency, as well as economic factors such as your wage and job location in B.C. During this step, you will be placed in a registration pool for your chosen stream. Your registration will remain active in the pool for up to 12 months, or until you receive an invitation to apply.
For step-by-step instructions on how to register online, please see the
Skills Immigration Application Guide
. For more information about registration and how points are awarded, please refer to the
Skills Immigration Program Guide
.
Wait for an invitation to apply
An invitation is needed to apply to most Skills Immigration streams. If you are invited to apply after registering, you will have up to 30 calendar days from the date of invitation to submit a complete application using the
BC PNP Online User Portal
. If you do not submit an application within 30 calendar days, your invitation will expire, and your registration will be removed from the pool.
If you would like to stay in the pool, you must submit a new registration. If you no longer wish to apply or no longer meet the criteria, you should not submit an application as your application may be denied.
You can learn more about how the BC PNP issues invitations in the
Skills Immigration Program Guide
. For more information, or to see recently issued invitations, visit the
invitations to apply
page.
Submit your BC PNP application
Submitting an application is your way to demonstrate to the BC PNP that you meet the criteria for the stream you have chosen. Before submitting your application, you must pay the application fee and ensure you have included all required documents.
When you are ready to submit your application, log in to your
online profile
and complete all sections of the application. Your application will be assessed according to the
Provincial Immigration Programs Act, the Provincial Immigration Programs Regulation
, and against the eligibility and requirements criteria specific to your stream.
For step-by-step instructions on how to submit your application using the BC PNP Online, please see the
Skills Immigration Application Guide
.
Wait for your nomination decision
If your application is approved, you will receive a nomination package with instructions on how to submit your permanent residence application to IRCC. This includes a Confirmation of Nomination letter issued by the BC PNP.
If your application is refused, you may request a review of the decision, or consider other immigration options.
For more information about what to do after you receive a nomination, please visit the
nominees page
.
Submit your IRCC application
Submit your application to IRCC to become a permanent resident of Canada before your Confirmation of Nomination document expires.
Please note:
as a nominee, you must comply with all the conditions of nomination while you wait for IRCC’s decision.
If IRCC approves your application, you will become a permanent resident of Canada.
For inquiries about Skills Immigration eligibility, requirements and processes, email
PNPInfo@gov.bc.ca
.
Processing times
Processing times show how long it may take to make a decision on a BC PNP application, post-nomination request, or request for review. Generally, around 80% of cases will be processed within the following timelines:
Stage
Estimated processing time*
Application
3 months
Post-nomination request
1 month
Request for review
6 months
* The time it takes to make a decision depends on when the BC PNP receives your complete application; the complexity and volume of cases; the program’s capacity; and the number of available nominations.
Be fraud aware