Rural Entrepreneur Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Rural Entrepreneur Stream – Eligibility
Find out if you meet the criteria to apply to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program’s Rural Entrepreneur Stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Eligibility
How to apply
After you are nominated
Participating communities
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Overview
The Rural Entrepreneur Stream allows Alberta to nominate qualified and capable entrepreneurs who want to start a new or buy an existing business in a rural Alberta community.
Entrepreneurs
An entrepreneur is a person who sets up a business with the aim to make a profit. An entrepreneur is commonly seen as an innovator, a source of new ideas, goods, services, and business/or procedures.
Entrepreneurs play a key role in Alberta’s economy, using their skills and initiative to anticipate needs and create jobs for Albertans. Entrepreneurs who prove to be successful in taking on the risks of establishing a business are rewarded with profits and continued growth opportunities.
The Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) defines rural Alberta communities as any community with a population of less than 100,000. The AAIP uses the most recent census from Statistics Canada to determine a community’s population. In addition, the community must be outside of the Calgary and Edmonton Census Metropolitan Area. More information can be found at:
Calgary Census Metropolitan Area
Edmonton Census Metropolitan Area
rural Alberta communities information is in the Rural Entrepreneur Stream Community Guide
Participating communities
Candidates interested in a specific rural Alberta community should connect with the community contact person to discuss their business proposal and schedule an exploratory visit. Each community has their own process for scheduling an exploratory visit. Communities reserve the right to meet only with potential entrepreneurs whom they deem as a fit.
When contacting a community, use only the contact details listed in each community’s profile. Communities not listed but wanting to participate can submit the Community Enrolment Form to [email protected].
For more information on participating rural communities, see the participating communities page.
Exploratory visit
Candidates must complete an exploratory visit. The community and the candidate determine together if the exploratory visit will be in-person or completed using web-based video conferencing. Candidates are required to submit an Exploratory Visit Report with the Business Application whether the visit was conducted in-person or by web-based video conferencing.
Candidates completing an in-person exploratory visit need to meet visa requirements to be able to come to Alberta. The AAIP and the community will not provide you with a letter of support to obtain a visa for the exploratory visit.
Prior to coming to Alberta for the exploratory visit, we recommend candidates research current market opportunities in the community, licensing and registration requirements, and steps involved in establishing a business in Alberta. The exploratory visit provides you with the opportunity to meet with local business contacts, economic development officers from the community as well as any other prospective contacts to learn and understand the local business environment, and requirements to build a successful business in the community. The purpose of the exploratory visit is to assist you in making an informed decision about operating and managing a business in a rural Alberta community. Keep records of the trip, including any contacts and meetings, as this information is needed for the Exploratory Visit Report.
The Exploratory Visit Report must include the following information:
The name of the professional business service providers or settlement organizations you visited during your trip or spoke to in your video conference, including mailing addresses, telephone numbers and emails.
A description of the activity, in-person meeting or video conference and how it relates to your business establishment or settlement.
Copies of business cards you collected from relevant contact and business service providers contacted during your in-person visit (if applicable).
Details of visits to existing business locations and meetings with current owners if you are planning to purchase an existing business. You should include the business name, location and the current owners’ names and contact details.
After the exploratory visit, provide a copy of the complete Rural Entrepreneur Stream Business Proposal Summary to the community contact person. This allows the community to reaffirm the discussions during the exploratory visit. The Business Proposal Summary provides information on the business venture in the community. If the community deems that you and your business proposal is a benefit to the community, a Community Support Letter is issued, and the community endorses the Business Proposal Summary. The Community Support Letter and endorsement of the Business Proposal Summary ensures the community is aware and supportive of the business, and supports your retention in Alberta. The community may provide you with additional information on contacts and support available for you to transition into the community upon arrival.
After receiving a copy of the Community Support Letter and endorsed Business Proposal Summary from the community, you can submit an Expression of Interest (EOI) to the AAIP.
Eligibility
To be eligible for this stream, candidates must meet the following criteria:
Table 1. Requirements for the Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Area
Requirements
Work experience
Have either a minimum 3 years of experience as an active business owner/manager or a minimum of 4 years of experience as a senior manager within the past 10 years.
Education
Completed a minimum of high school equivalent to the Canadian standard with an Education Credential Assessment (ECA).
The Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) website lists the designated organizations for ECAs
Language
Have a minimum Canadian Language Benchmark (CLB) level of 4 for each English language skill or Niveaux de compétence linguistique canadiens (NCLC) of 4 for each French language skill: reading, writing, listening, and speaking. Official test results must be less than 2 years old at the time your Expression of Interest is submitted. The AAIP only accepts the following language tests:
Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) General Test
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training Test
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
Test d'évaluation de français (TEF) Canada
Test de connaissance du français (TCF) Canada
Check the IRCC website on CLB/NCLC equivalency for each of the tests.
Net worth
Minimum net worth of $300,000. All assets must be candidate’s own personal holdings or spouse's or common-law partner’s.
Business investment
Minimum investment of $100,000 from candidate’s own (and/or spouse/common-law partner) equity. Higher levels of investment will be awarded more points.
Business establishment
Minimum ownership of 51% for a new business. Business Partners must be Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents.
OR
100% ownership for business succession (the succession buy-out must result in a complete change in ownership where the candidate will assume full control of the business).
Business must not be on the list of ineligible businesses.
Resources on how to establish a business in Alberta, including supports and services related to business plan development, business start-up, and business loans are available on the Small business resource page.
Job creation
New businesses must create at least one full-time job for Canadian Citizens or Permanent Residents (not including relatives).
More job creation will be awarded more points. Jobs must be created for Canadian citizens or permanent residents (not including relatives) for a period of at least 6 months.
For business succession, job creation is not required.
Community support letter
Candidates must have a Community Support Letter from a participating rural Alberta community.
Factors that increase your chances
If candidates have one or more of the factors in Table 3, this may increase their likelihood of receiving a Request to Submit a Business Application.
Table 2. Factors that increase your chances
Economic Benefit
Business succession
Age
21 to 49
Spouse
Your spouse/common-law partner has one of the following:
completed at least one year of full-time post-secondary education (Certificate, Associate Degree, Diploma, Bachelor’s Degree or higher) or
a minimum level Canadian Language Benchmark 4 in English or Niveaux de compétence linguistique canadiens 4 in French in all four language abilities (Reading, Writing, Listening, Speaking). Language test results must be less than 2 years old at the time the Expression of Interest is submitted.
Alberta relative
Relatives are defined as father, step-father, mother, step-mother, child, step-child, sister, step-sister, brother, step-brother of candidate or spouse or common-law partner
AAIP self-assessment tool
Review the Self-Assessment Tool to ensure you meet program eligibility requirements.
Selection from EOI pool
The AAIP is currently accepting EOIs under the Rural Entrepreneur Stream. The information provided in the EOI, Business Proposal Summary, Net Worth Worksheet and Community Support Letter is assessed and points are awarded by the AAIP based on the Rural Entrepreneur Stream Points Grid. Alberta may select candidates with the highest-ranking points and request they submit a Business Application.
For more information on the application process, see How to apply.
Table 3. Rural Entrepreneur Stream Points Grid
Criteria
Descriptions
Points
Rural Factor (25 points)
Business Location
(Maximum of 25 points)
Mandatory requirement
Rural Community
Community outside the Edmonton and Calgary Census Metropolitan Areas and under 100,000 population size (mandatory minimum)
Tier 1: Less than 10,000 population
25
Tier 2: 10,001 to 50,000 population
17
Tier 3: 50,001 to 99,999 population
10
Business Experience Factor (20 points)
Business owner-manager or senior management experience within the past 10 years
(Maximum of 20 points)
Mandatory requirement
Business owner-manager
3 to less than 4 years (mandatory minimum)
12
4 to less than 5 years
16
5 or more years
20
or Senior manager
4 to less than 5 years (mandatory minimum)
12
5 to less than 6 years
16
6 or more years
20
Business Establishment Factors (60 points)
Total Business Investment
(Maximum of 20 points)
Mandatory requirement
$100,000 to $399,999 (mandatory minimum)
5
$400,000 to $599,999
10
$600,000 to $799,999
15
$800,000 or more
20
Net Worth
(Maximum of 10 points)
Mandatory requirement
$300,000 to $399,999 (mandatory minimum)
6
$400,000 to $499,999
8
$500,000 or more
10
Job Creation
Jobs must be created for Canadian Citizens or Permanent residents (not including relatives) for a period of at least 6 months.
(Maximum of 20 points)
Mandatory requirement
For business succession, job creation is not mandatory; however, candidates will be awarded points for job creation.
1 job (mandatory minimum)
4
2 jobs
8
3 jobs
12
4 jobs
16
5 jobs or more
20
Business Successions
(Maximum of 10 points)
Not a Mandatory requirement
Investment to takeover an existing business
10
Human Capital Factors (35 points)
Language Proficiency
(Maximum of 25 points)
Mandatory requirement
Proficiency in English or French:
CLB/NCLC 4 (4 for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking) (mandatory minimum)
15
CLB/NCLC 5 (5 for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking)
20
CLB/NCLC 6 or higher (6 for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking)
25
Education
(Maximum of 10 points)
Mandatory requirement
High-school Diploma equivalent to Canadian standards (mandatory minimum)
4
Associate Degree or Diploma (at least one year)
7
Bachelor’s degree or higher
10
Adaptability Factors (35 points)
Canada/Alberta experience from work or studies within the past 10 years
(Maximum of 15 points)
Not a mandatory requirement
In rural Alberta
12 to 24 months
10
More than 24 months
15
And / Or
In non-rural Alberta (Calgary and Edmonton Census Metropolitan Area)
18 to 30 months
6
More than 30 months
10
And / Or
In Canada
24 to 36 months
3
More than 36 months
5
Relative(s) in the community or Alberta
(Maximum of 10 points)
Not a mandatory requirement
Relatives are defined as father, step-father, mother, step-mother, child, step-child, sister, step-sister, brother, step-brother of candidate or spouse/common-law partner
Relative(s) living in Alberta
5
or
Relative(s) living in the community where you intend to reside and operate a business
10
Spouse’s/Common-law partner’s Language Proficiency or Education
(Maximum of 5 points)
Not a mandatory requirement
Proficiency in English or French:
CLB/NCLC 4 (4 for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking)
3
CLB/NCLC 5 (5 for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking)
4
CLB/NCLC 6 or higher (6 or higher for each Reading, Writing, Learning and Speaking)
5
and / or Education:
Certificate, Associate Degree or Diploma (at least one year)
3
Bachelor’s degree or higher
5
Age
(Maximum of 5 points)
Not a mandatory requirement
21 to 49
5
Maximum Points
175
Selection and notification process
Once the AAIP receives your Business Application, it is assessed against eligibility criteria and your EOI Points are verified. A Program Officer from the AAIP may contact you for more information.
The AAIP does not guarantee that all complete Business Applications received will be assessed or that all candidates who meet the assessment criteria will be issued a Business Application Approval Letter and/or nomination certificate. Review the declaration for the Rural Entrepreneur Stream available on the AAIP Portal and the Program’s Terms and Conditions for complete information. Submission of a Business Application or nomination by the AAIP does not guarantee you will be issued a permanent resident visa.
Ineligibility
You are not eligible to apply under the Rural Entrepreneur Stream if:
you have an active nomination, which has not expired and/or is eligible for extension under another AAIP stream. Candidates are only eligible for one AAIP Nomination Certificate
you have been issued a letter on a previous AAIP application that stated you are not eligible to re-apply to the Program for a specified period of time. You will be declined under the Rural Entrepreneur Stream if you apply during the specified period.
you have a removal order issued against you by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) or Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA)
you are a refugee claimant or an individual involved in IRCC appeal or removal process. AAIP does not intervene in IRCC refugee claim, appeal or removal process.
you are a foreign national living or working in Canada with no valid temporary resident status
your business is on the list of ineligible businesses
Established businesses in Alberta
Recognizing the economic contributions by foreign entrepreneurs in Alberta who currently own and operate a business in Alberta, the AAIP is providing an immigration pathway for these entrepreneurs to apply for permanent residency.
Entrepreneurs who currently own and operate a business in a rural Alberta community can apply to the AAIP and must demonstrate they meet the criteria highlighted in the Rural Entrepreneur Stream Points grid at the time of EOI submission. The established business must have operated in Alberta for at least one year immediately prior to submitting an EOI in the AAIP portal. Furthermore, the Community Support letter must be included with the EOI submission.
EOI submissions are scored based on the Rural Entrepreneur Stream Points grid and candidates with the highest-ranking points are requested to submit a Business Application to the AAIP. Entrepreneurs who have already established businesses in rural Alberta communities and are currently operating them are not required to operate their business for an additional one year after applying to the AAIP. Eligible entrepreneurs are issued a nomination certificate after submitting their Business Application to the Program and must continue to operate their business in Alberta while they go through the permanent residence application process with IRCC. Refer to after you are nominated for more information on next steps.
Business eligibility
Economic establishment
Candidates must have a strong likelihood of becoming economically established in Alberta. AAIP may decline an application if it determines that a candidate is unlikely to economically establish in Alberta.
For the Entrepreneur Streams, economic establishment means demonstrating a credible and substantial likelihood that you will establish, actively manage, operate and sustain a viable business in Alberta as an owner-operator, in accordance with the requirements of your stream.
AAIP assesses economic establishment using relevant, credible and verifiable information available at the time of assessment.
When assessing economic establishment, AAIP may consider factors including:
Alberta business presence: How you will actively manage the business on a day-to-day basis in Alberta as an owner-operator, including operating from business premises where required.
Business viability and sustainability: Whether the proposed or acquired business has a reasonable prospect of operating successfully, remaining financially sustainable and adapting to market conditions in Alberta.
Economic contribution to Alberta: The expected economic benefit of the business to Alberta, which may include investment, job creation, business expansion, innovation, export development, regional diversification or other economic contributions.
Employment and workforce planning: Whether proposed workforce plans, including hiring and salaries, are reasonable in relation to the scale, nature, operational needs, financial projections and growth plans of the business. AAIP may also consider relevant Alberta labour market information.
Applicant capacity and business alignment: Your relevant experience, knowledge, financial capacity and managerial competency to establish, operate and grow the proposed business.
Regulatory readiness: Whether you have considered applicable federal, provincial and municipal laws, regulations, licensing requirements and industry standards relevant to the proposed business and how those requirements will be met.
Information provided at the time of submitting your Entrepreneur Expression of Interest, Business Application, throughout the assessment process, and during any subsequent monitoring and reporting period, as applicable, may be used to assess economic establishment. AAIP may request additional information where needed to complete the assessment.
Eligible businesses
It is your responsibility to ensure your proposed business meets the criteria for eligible businesses. If it is not an eligible business or does not clearly demonstrate a significant economic benefit to Alberta, your EOI or Business Application may be declined.
Business must have the potential for creating economic benefit to Alberta, as in the opinion of and as determined by the AAIP. A proposed business must align with the following general requirements to be eligible under the Rural Entrepreneur Stream:
The purpose of the proposed business must be to make a profit from active or earned income, not passive income, through the sale of goods and/or provision of services.
The proposed business must comply with any applicable Government of Canada, Government of Alberta or municipal legal, regulatory, or licensing requirements that govern its operation. This includes Alberta labour laws, including but not limited to, employment standards, occupational health and safety and labour relations legislations.
The proposed business must comply with applicable trade certification requirements in Alberta. For example, businesses in a certification required trade must have a valid Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Trade (AIT) recognized trade certificate. To determine if you require a trade certificate, review these lists of designated trades:
Certification Required Trades
Certification Optional Trades
The proposed business must have a physical place of business in a rural Alberta community at all times.
For franchises, the ownership requirements and all other program criteria are the same as for other businesses. Candidates must also provide evidence that they have received support from the master franchisor to operate a franchise location.
You must own at least 51% of the business if it is a new business, or have 100% ownership of the business if you are purchasing an already established business (business succession). You are required to reside in Alberta and be involved in the day-to-day management of the business. You may not do this remotely, from another Canadian province or territory, or from another country and you are required to demonstrate residence in Alberta while on a work permit.
Ineligible businesses
Ineligible businesses include:
any business in contravention of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act and Regulations, for example, immigration-linked investment schemes or passive investment
businesses without a value-add economic component, including:
pay day loan, cheque cashing and related businesses
businesses trading in used goods
businesses that would be considered passive investment or lack active management, including:
property rental, investment, and leasing activities
real estate development/brokerage, insurance brokerage or business brokerage
coin-operated businesses, including laundromats and car wash operations
project based or seasonal businesses
home-based businesses, including:
businesses that are not zoned for commercial or industrial operations
bed-and-breakfasts and lodging houses
businesses that are part of a succession plan and:
are owned or operated by a relative of the candidate
were previously owned/operated by a current or former AAIP entrepreneur stream candidate/nominee within the past 4 years
have changed ownership within the past 3 years prior to the Rural Entrepreneur Stream Business Application
businesses involved in producing, distributing, or selling pornography or sexually explicit products or services, or providing sexually oriented services
any other type of business that by association would tend to bring the AAIP and the Government of Alberta into disrepute, in the opinion of and as determined by the AAIP
Contact
Connect with us if you have questions about this program:
Email: [email protected]
Back to
Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Next
How to apply
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta