Alberta Express Entry Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Alberta Express Entry Stream – Eligibility
Find out if you meet the requirements for being asked by the province of Alberta to apply to this immigration stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Overview
Eligibility requirements posted on this page, are subject to change without notice. Selection parameters for invitations to apply to this stream may vary for individual selection draws.
In 2024 and early 2025, the AAIP will consider an invitation to apply based on the following priorities:
Dedicated Health Care Pathway
Accelerated Tech Pathway
Law Enforcement Pathway
priority sectors, such as construction, agriculture, aviation
Ensure you read the process and requirements for each pathway below.
Eligibility requirements
To qualify to submit an application and receive a nomination, you must meet the following 3 types of requirements:
Minimum assessment requirements
The following minimum assessment requirements apply to all Alberta Express Entry Stream applicants at the time of application and assessment:
you must have an active Express Entry profile in the federal Express Entry pool
you meet the criteria of at least one of the federal immigration programs managed by Express Entry:
Canadian Experience Class
Federal Skilled Trades Program
Federal Skilled Worker Program
you must have a minimum Comprehensive Ranking System score of 300
your primary occupation in your federal Express Entry profile must be included as part of a specific Express Entry stream pathway, or is identified as an occupation connected to a provincial economic, sector or occupational priority
you and your Alberta employer must meet all the requirements outlined on Alberta Job Offer and Employment Requirements, if you are invited based on having an Alberta job offer
you must intend to and be able to live and work permanently in Alberta and have stated an interest in immigrating permanently to Alberta
Ineligible applicants
You are not eligible to apply if:
your primary occupation is on the Alberta Opportunity Stream Ineligible Occupations list
you are a refugee claimant or subject to a federal appeal or removal process
AAIP cannot intervene in the federal refugee claim, appeal or removal process.
you have an active nomination under any AAIP stream
An active nomination is one that has not expired or is eligible for extension, or both, or a nomination that was used to apply for permanent residence but where a decision has not yet been made on the permanent residence application.
you are currently identified as ineligible to re-apply to the AAIP due to misrepresentation
Pathway requirements
Dedicated Health Care Pathway
The Dedicated Health Care Pathway page sets out eligibility requirements for this pathway.
You must review the Dedicated Health Care Pathway page before submitting an application.
Accelerated Tech Pathway
The following pathway requirements apply to those invited to apply under the Accelerated Tech Pathway.
At the time your application is submitted and assessed:
you must be working full-time in Alberta under an employment contract or have a bona fide job offer signed by you and your employer that:
meets job offer and current employment contract requirements identified on the Alberta job offer requirements page, and:
is in an occupation on the list of eligible Accelerated Tech Pathway occupations
is for an Alberta employer whose primary business activities belong to the Alberta tech industry, as defined by the AAIP list of eligible North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes
you must have valid immigration status (work permit or implied status), if you are working in Alberta for your Alberta employer at the time of AAIP application
your primary occupation in your Express Entry profile must be the same occupation as your current Alberta employment or job offer
Ineligible applicants
The following individuals are not eligible to apply for or be nominated under the Accelerated Tech Pathway, even if they are working for an eligible Alberta employer in an eligible tech occupation or have a job offer to work 30 hours a week or more in a 12-month or greater period:
part-time, casual or seasonal employees, regardless of their working hours
independent contractors or temporary agency workers
employees who do not work in Alberta, such as those who work online from a location outside Alberta or who work at a premises outside of Alberta
Law Enforcement Pathway
The AAIP will review the information on international recruits, as identified by a member organization of the Alberta Association of Chiefs of Police, to determine if requirements are met to receive an invitation to apply.
The following pathway requirements apply to those invited to apply under the Law Enforcement Pathway.
At the time your application is submitted and assessed:
your primary occupation in your Express Entry profile is the same occupation as your current Alberta employment or job offer
you have been identified by AACP to AAIP as an internationally recruited police officer and
have a valid, verifiable job offer from an Alberta employer in the Alberta police services (based on valid AACP membership) in one of the following eligible police services National Occupational Classification (NOC) codes and titles:
40040 – Commissioned (management) police offers and related occupations in public protection services
41310 – Police investigators and other investigative occupations
42100 – Police officers (except commissioned)
Important: NOC codes cover many different occupational titles. AAIP will seek additional information from prospective applicants, and the AACP, regarding the occupation identified in the job offer to ensure the individual is eligible under this pathway.
Other Alberta Express Entry Stream selections and other streams’ nominations will complement the selections targeting this specific sector.
Priority sectors
The following pathway requirements apply to those invited to apply under Priority Sector draws.
At the time your application is submitted and assessed:
your primary occupation in your Express Entry profile must be an eligible construction, agriculture or aviation occupation
if you are invited based on having an Alberta job offer, your job offer occupation must be an eligible construction, agriculture or aviation occupation
Selection draw requirements
The AAIP may apply other selection factors when completing selection draws for the Alberta Express Entry Stream.
At the time of application and assessment you must demonstrate you meet all additional selection factors for the draw under which you were invited to apply.
To confirm selection parameters, review information on selection draws completed by the AAIP on AAIP processing information.
You may be less likely to be asked to submit an application if your Express Entry profile expires in 5 months or less. It is recommended you keep your Express Entry profile up to date so that you remain eligible for consideration for Alberta Express Entry Stream in the future.
If you submitted your Alberta Express Entry application on or after September 30, 2024, and your Express Entry Profile expires before a decision is made on your application, you can now submit an updated profile. You may update your Express Entry Profile in the following ways:
The AAIP may request that you create and submit a new Express Entry Profile that meets AAIP requirements (CRS of 300 or more, and the same primary occupation as listed in your Worker Expression of Interest).
You can also proactively submit an updated Express Entry Profile through the AAIP portal under the “Update Employment Information” tab if you realize that your current profile has expired or is about to expire before a decision is made on your application. Your new Express Entry Profile must meet the AAIP requirements.
Back to
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta