Farm Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Farm Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Farm Stream
Farm Stream – Eligibility
Find out eligibility requirements for the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) Farm Stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Farm Stream
Eligibility
How to apply
After you are nominated
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Eligibility criteria
To be eligible for this stream, candidates must meet the following criterion at the time their application is mailed to AAIP and at the time of assessment by AAIP. Meeting these criteria does not guarantee a nomination or permanent residence.
Farm management skills
Candidates must prove that they have farm management skills.
Proof of this may include, but is not limited to:
financial documentation of an existing farm business
documentation of education, training and work experience
a proposed business plan for the farming enterprise you are considering in Alberta
proof that a Canadian financial institution is willing to finance your proposed farming business
Sufficient financial resources
Candidates must be able to invest a minimum of CDN $500,000 of equity in a primary production farming business in Alberta.
Documents must be provided that show a minimum net worth of CDN $500,000, or confirmation of the ability to access a similar amount of funds from other sources.
Candidates may be required to show the ability to invest more than the minimum.
Primary production investment
Candidates must document their investment plans in a proposed business plan and submit this with their application to AAIP. The proposed business plan will be reviewed by Alberta Agriculture and Irrigation to ensure the farming operation aligns with Alberta farming industry requirements.
Applications representing the best opportunity for growth relevant to Alberta's agri-food targets will be given priority.
Ineligibility
You are not eligible to apply under AAIP Farm Stream if you:
have an active nomination that has not expired and/or is eligible for extension under another AAIP stream. Candidates are only eligible for one AAIP Nomination Certificate.
have been issued a letter on a previous AAIP application that stated you are not eligible to re-apply to AAIP for a specified period of time. If you apply during the specified period, it will be declined.
have had a removal order issued against you by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) or Canada Border Services Agency. AAIP does not intervene in the Government of Canada refugee claim, appeal or removal process.
are a foreign national living or working in Canada with no valid temporary resident status.
are a live-in caregivers currently living in Canada
are working and residing as a temporary foreign worker in a province other than Alberta
are an international student studying in Canada, including students doing co-op work placements or internships as part of their study program
Contact
Connect with the program if you have questions:Email: [email protected]
Back to
Farm Stream
Next
How to apply
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta