Alberta Opportunity Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Alberta Opportunity Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Alberta Opportunity Stream
Alberta Opportunity Stream – Eligibility
Learn about the language, education and work experience requirements for eligible applicants.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Alberta Opportunity Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Overview
Alberta Opportunity Stream criteria may apply at the time your application is submitted, at the time the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) assesses your application, or both. Review the criteria carefully to understand eligibility requirements.
Important: The National Occupational Classification (NOC) 2021 version applies to all AAIP applications submitted on or after November 16, 2022.
If you submitted your application on or before November 15, 2022, review the NOC 2016 of the requirements that apply to you.
Residency, work permit requirements
At the time your application is submitted, and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have a valid temporary resident status in Canada that authorizes you to work in Canada, that is, a temporary foreign worker permit.
NOC 2021 update: Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) based work permits issued under NOC 2016 version continue to be accepted by AAIP.
Eligible applicants
At the time your application is submitted, and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have a valid work permit – not status maintained during processing (formerly implied status) or restoration status.
Valid work permits are based on one of the following:
a positive Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA)
an LMIA exemption for workers based on one of the following exemptions as determine by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC):
international trade agreements
workers transferred within a company
International Experience Canada
Mobilité Francophone
R205(d) for religious work
an open work permit issued by IRCC to:
vulnerable workers who have demonstrated they are experiencing abuse or are at risk of abuse in the context of their employment in Canada, including under the Vulnerable Workers Open Work Permit (VWOWP) exemption, or
the family members of a vulnerable worker under the VWOWP exemption
a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) held by a graduate of an Alberta Advanced Education publicly funded post-secondary institution
PGWP holders must also meet specific occupation, education and work experience requirements as set out below.
an open work permit issued under one of IRCC’s open work permit temporary public policies except those that do not confer temporary residence, such as refugees, or those that are based on an existing application for permanent residence in process:
Examples include, but are not limited to, an open work permit issued under IRCC’s Ukraine immigration measures (also known as the Canada-Ukraine Authorization for Emergency Travel (CUAET)), an open work permit issued under the public policy for Hong Kong recent graduates, foreign nationals in Canada affected by wildfires in 2024, etc.
If you have a work permit type covered by an eligible IRCC temporary public policy that is not already listed in the Expression of Interest or the application form (if invited to apply), choose ‘Other’ as the work permit, and reference the public policy in the free text field.
Note: for 2022 temporary policy changes to the PGWP Program or ​2023 temporary policy changes to the PGWP Program:
Permit must beheld by a graduate of an Alberta Advanced Education publicly funded post-secondary institution.
Holders of these open work permit must also meet the same specific occupation, education and work experience requirements as PGWP holders as set out below.
If your work permit type is not included in the list above, you are not eligible to apply.
Ineligible applicants
The following individuals cannot apply for or be nominated under the Alberta Opportunity Stream:
refugee claimants or individuals involved in a Government of Canada appeal or removal process – the AAIP does not intervene in a Government of Canada refugee claim, appeal or removal process
temporary residents living or working in a province or territory of Canada other than Alberta, or
foreign nationals living or working in Canada who do not have valid temporary resident status
Occupation requirements
Eligible occupations
At the time your application is submitted, and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must work in an eligible occupation in Alberta. Occupation requirements also apply to your work experience and job offer.
You must review the work experience criteria and eligible job offer criteria sections below for details.
The occupation you are working in at the time your application is submitted is your ‘current occupation'.
Important: The NOC 2021 version applies to all AAIP applications submitted on or after November 16, 2022. Use IRCC’s Find your NOC tool to find the NOC 2021 version of your occupation.
If you submitted your application on or before November 15, 2022, review the NOC 2016 version of the occupation requirements that applied to you.
Most occupations under NOC TEER Categories 0, 1, 2, 3 4 and 5 are eligible under AAIP.
Ineligible occupations
Individuals working in the following occupations at the time of submission and assessment are not eligible to apply for or be nominated under the Alberta Opportunity Stream.
Table 1. List of ineligible occupations
*This National Occupation Classification (NOC) code consists of both eligible occupations and ineligible occupations. The ‘Occupation’ column specifies which occupations are ineligible for each NOC Code listed.
NOC code (2021)
NOC TEER category
Occupation
00010
0
Legislators
40021
0
School principals and administrators of elementary and secondary education
40030
0
Managers in social, community and correctional services
40041
0
Fire chiefs and senior firefighting officers
60040*
0
Escort agency managers, massage parlour managers
41100
1
Judges
41220
1
Secondary school teachers
41221
1
Elementary school and kindergarten teachers
51111
1
Authors and writers (except technical)
51122
1
Musicians and singers
42200*
2
Justices of the peace
42202*
2
Early childhood educators who do not have certification through Alberta Children's Services – Child Care Staff Certification Office or who have been certified as Level 1 Early Childhood Educator (formerly Child Development Assistant)
43100
3
Elementary and secondary school teacher assistants
43109
3
Other instructors
53121
3
Actors, comedians and circus performers
53122
3
Painters, sculptors and other visual artists
53124
3
Artisans and craftspersons
53200
3
Athletes
63101
3
Real estate agents and salespersons
33100*
3
Dental laboratory assistants/bench workers
44100
4
Home child care providers
44101
4
Home support workers, caregivers and related occupations
64321
4
Casino occupations
55109
5
Other performers
65109
5
Other sales related occupations
65211
5
Operators and attendants in amusement, recreation and sport
65229
5
Other support occupations in personal services
65329
5
Other service support occupations
75200
5
Taxi and limousine drivers and chauffeurs
85101
5
Harvesting labourers
85102
5
Aquaculture and marine harvest labourers
85104
5
Trappers and hunters
85110
5
Mine labourers
85121
5
Landscaping and grounds maintenance labourers
If you are unsure whether your occupation is on this list:
find your occupation on the NOC website, based on your job title and job duties
contact the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Post-Graduation Work Permit holders
If you are a Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) holder, your occupation must also be related to your field of study in Alberta. Review the education requirements section for details on eligible Alberta credentials and approved Alberta institutions.
If you started attending your Alberta credential program on or after April 1, 2019 and you have completed an Advanced Education-approved one-year post-diploma certificate or post-baccalaureate certificate, your occupation must also be related to your previous post-secondary field of study outside Canada.
Language requirements
You must confirm the TEER Category for your occupation in the NOC 2021 and use the TEER Category to determine your minimum language score using the table below. If you submitted your application on or before November 15, 2022 review the NOC 2016 version of the language requirements that applied to you.
You must demonstrate you meet the following language test score in English or French at the time that you submit your application. You must meet the scores based on a single test result.
Table 2. Language requirements
National Occupational Classification (NOC) TEER category
Canadian Language Benchmark (CLB) test score required
Niveaux de compétence linguistique canadiens (NCLC) test score required
If you are working in a NOC 0, 1, 2 or 3 occupation
Minimum of 5 for each English language skill
Minimum of 5 for each French language skill
If you are working in a NOC 4 or 5 occupation
Minimum of 4 for each English language skill
Minimum of 4 for each French language skill
If you apply to AAIP under NOC code 33102 (nurse aides, orderlies and patient service associates), the AAIP requires a minimum language test score of CLB of 7 for each English language skill, or NCLC of 7 for each French language skill.
You must provide your official test results with your AAIP application for one of the following language tests:
Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) General Test
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training Test
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
Test d'évaluation de français Canada (TEF Canada)
Test de connaissance du français Canada (TCF Canada)
Official test results must be less than 2 years old at the time your application was submitted. The date used to determine the age of your tests results is the date you took the test, not the date your test results were released. AAIP will not accept confirmation of registration to take a language test in place of a test result.
Check the Government of Canada guideline on CLB/NCLC equivalency for each of the tests.
For information about language requirements in place from 2019 to 2021, read the Alberta Opportunity Stream changes below.
Education requirements
All applicants except Post-Graduation Work Permit holders
As of January 1, 2021, at the time your application is submitted, you must have completed a minimum of high school education equivalent to Canadian standards.
You must provide a copy of an Educational Credential Assessment (ECA) issued by an organization designated by IRCC for your highest level of education. If your ECA report shows that your credential is not equal to completion of Canadian high school or the ECA states your foreign educational institution is not recognized, you do not meet the education requirement.
You do not need to provide an ECA if:
you have a Canadian degree, diploma or certificate from a Canadian post-secondary, technical college or secondary institution listed as:
a recognized institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, or
an authorized, registered, or licensed institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, and the institution was authorized by Advanced Education to grant your degree, diploma or certificate. Contact your educational institution or Advanced Education to confirm if your institution had the authority to grant your credential.
you have a valid Alberta Qualification Certificate or a trade certificate recognized by Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training (AIT).
AAIP reserves the right to request an ECA from any candidate and/or to seek an internal educational assessment from the International Qualification Assessment Service (IQAS) or Advanced Education to confirm a candidate meets the minimum Canadian high school equivalent requirement.
Post-Graduation Work Permit holders
PGWP holders must meet the following additional education requirements at the time of application submission.
Approved Alberta institutions
Your credential must be issued by an Alberta Advanced Education publicly funded post-secondary institution.
Eligible Alberta credentials
Your credential must be an Alberta Advanced Education approved credential (also known as a minister approved credential).
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions can also issue credentials without the approval of the Minister of Advanced Education. These are known as institution approved credentials. Institution approved credentials are not eligible for the Alberta Opportunity Stream. Some examples may include credentials issued for non-credit and continuing education programs.
Confirm with your post-secondary institution if your credential is a ministry or institution approved credential before you apply for nomination as a Post-Graduation Work Permit holder.
Eligible Alberta Advanced Education approved credentials:
post-diploma certificate or post-baccalaureate certificate (minimum 1 year in length)
diploma program (minimum 2 years in length)
undergraduate bachelor's degree
graduate level degree
graduate level certificate
graduate level diploma
If you started attending your Alberta credential program before April 1, 2019, you can also qualify with an entry-level certificate (minimum one year in length).
Work experience requirements
Your ‘current occupation’ is the occupation you are working in at the time your application is submitted.
Your current occupation must also match your work experience at the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application.
Eligible work experience
At the time your application is submitted you must have either:
a minimum of 12 months full-time work experience in your current occupation in Alberta within the last 18 months, or
a minimum of 24 months of full-time work experience in your current occupation in Canada or abroad within the last 30 months or both – this work experience can be a combination of experience gained in Alberta, in Canada (outside Alberta) or abroad.
Post-Graduation Work Permit holders require a minimum of 6 months full-time work experience in your current occupation in Alberta within the last 18 months.
For all applicants, including Post-Graduation Work Permit (PGWP) holders, work experience in the qualifying period:
must have been full-time, for a minimum of 30 hours a week
must be for the same occupation as your current occupation
must have been authorized by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada and with valid temporary resident status if completed in Alberta or Canada
cannot have been gained while studying in Canada and doing co-op work placements or internships as part of a study program, unless you are a PGWP holder who completed during paid co-op work terms as a part of your program of study at an Alberta post-secondary institution. To qualify, the work terms must have been:
paid and full-time (minimum 30 hours per week)
for work experience directly related to your current occupation, and
for work experience all gained in Alberta
All applicants, including PGWP holders, must meet the following licensing, registration and certification requirements at the time your application is submitted and the time AAIP assesses your application:
You must have the required licensing, registration or certification to work in your current occupation in Alberta.
If you are working in a compulsory trade in Alberta, you must have a valid Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Trade (AIT) recognized trade certificate.
If you are working as childcare worker, you must have valid certification as a Level 2 Early Childhood Educator (formerly Child Development Worker) or Level 3 Early Childhood Educator (formerly Child Development Supervisor).
Eligible job offers
All applicants, including PGWP holders, must have a full-time job offer or employment contract from an Alberta employer to work in their current occupation in Alberta when the application is submitted and when we assess it.
This full-time job offer or employment contract must meet AAIP work permit requirements and must meet all Alberta job offer and employer requirements.
You must meet the terms agreed to in your job offer or employment contract when your application is submitted and when we assess it.
Ineligible applicants based on job offer
The following individuals are not eligible to apply for or be nominated under the Alberta Opportunity Stream, even if they have a job offer to work 30 hours a week or more in a 12-month period:
part-time, casual or seasonal employees, regardless of their working hours
independent contractors, business owners or temporary agency workers, including individuals listed as directors, shareholders or agents of the Alberta employer on the Corporate Registry System (CORES)
employees who work in Alberta in a place of employment that is not zoned for commercial or industrial operations, such as a home-based business
employees who do not work on premises in Alberta, such as those who work in a ‘virtual’ location or serve the employer by telecommuting from a location outside Alberta
Back to
Alberta Opportunity Stream
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta