Rural Renewal Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Rural Renewal Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Rural Renewal Stream
Rural Renewal Stream – Eligibility
Find out if you meet the criteria to apply to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program – Rural Renewal Stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Rural Renewal Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Community designation
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Overview
This page includes eligibility requirements for applicants who have been offered a full-time job in a Designated Community and have an Endorsement of Candidate Letter from the Designated Community.
Applicants to the Rural Renewal Stream may be temporary workers residing in Canada with a valid work permit or individuals who are not in Canada.
The Rural Renewal Stream has a 2-step process:
Once a community is designated by the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP), the community follows one of these endorsement processes:
A Designated Community directly recruits foreign workers to meet labour needs and provides an Endorsement of Candidate letter to selected candidates.
Candidate submits a Worker Expression of Interest. If selected by AAIP, the candidate will be invited to submit an application.
Read the details on community requirements for designation and the endorsement process.
Requirements
Read the requirements to understand which apply to you. Some requirements may differ for temporary workers and individuals not living or working in Alberta or Canada.
Rural Renewal Stream criteria applies at the time your application is submitted and at the time the AAIP assesses your application. Review the criteria carefully to understand eligibility requirements.
Community residency requirement
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must intend to reside and work in your Designated Community in Alberta or are already living and working in your Designated Community.
Ineligible applicants
Refugee claimants already in Canada.
Foreign nationals living in Canada who do not have a valid work permit.
Community endorsement requirement
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have a valid Endorsement of Candidate letter issued by the Economic Development Organization (EDO) of your designated rural community in Alberta. The recommendation must be based on criteria established by the EDO. In addition, you must meet AAIP Rural Renewal Stream eligibility criteria.
Endorsement of Candidate letter
All candidates must have an Endorsement of Candidate letter from their Designated Community. Endorsement of Candidate letter is only valid for one year from the date of issuance.
The letter must be issued by the local EDO of the community and must outline the following:
date of issuance
name and address of the EDO supporting the application
your full name and residential address
details of the bona fide job offer:
name of the business
name and contact information of the employer
location of employment
position and description of job duties
duration of employment and work conditions
detailed description of how filling the position you are offered aligns with the economic growth of the designated community
your employer’s efforts to fill the position with Canadian citizens, permanent residences or youth within the community, and outcomes
name, title and contact information of the person issuing the Endorsement of Candidate letter
Occupation requirements
At the time your application is submitted, and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have a job offer in an eligible occupation.
An occupation is considered eligible if it is not on the list of in-eligible occupations in Table 1 below. Use IRCC’s Find your NOC tool to find the NOC 2021 version of your occupation.
Most occupations under NOC TEER categories 0, 1, 2, 3,4 and 5 are eligible under AAIP with the following conditions:
Eligible for TEERs 0–5:
Temporary workers who reside in Alberta and hold a valid work permit.
Eligible for TEERs 0–3 only:
Temporary workers who reside outside Alberta but within Canada and hold a valid work permit.
Individuals who reside outside Canada.
Ineligible occupations
All individuals with job offers for the following occupations at the time of application submission and assessment are not eligible to apply for or be nominated under the Rural Renewal Stream.
Table 1. List of ineligible occupations
*This National Occupation Classification (NOC) code consists of both eligible occupations and ineligible occupations. The ‘Occupation’ column specifies which occupations are ineligible for each NOC Code listed.
NOC Code (2021)
NOC TEER category
Occupation
00010
0
Legislators
60040*
0
Escort agency managers, massage parlour managers
41100
1
Judges
51111
1
Authors and writers (except technical)
51122
1
Musicians and singers
42200*
2
Justices of the peace
53121
3
Actors, comedians and circus performers
53122
3
Painters, sculptors and other visual artists
53124
3
Artisans and craftspersons
53200
3
Athletes
33100*
3
Dental laboratory bench workers
44100
4
Home child care providers
44101
4
Home support workers, caregivers and related occupations
64321
4
Casino Occupations
55109
5
Other performers
65229
5
Other support occupations in personal services
85101
5
Harvesting Labourers
Job offer requirements
At the time your application is submitted, and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have a full-time job offer or employment contract from an Alberta employer to work in an eligible occupation within an established business operation in your Designated Community.
Alberta job offers or employment contracts and the Alberta employer offering the job must meet all the requirements outlined on Alberta Job Offer and Employment Requirements.
You are responsible for working with your Alberta employer to ensure that all job offer or employment contract and employer requirements are met. Your application will be declined if these requirements are not met. Your application fee will not be refunded where an application is declined based on Alberta employer requirements not being met.
Ineligible applicants based on job offers
The following individuals are not eligible to apply for or be nominated under the Rural Renewal Stream, even if they have a job offer to work 30 hours a week or more in a 12-month period:
part-time, casual or seasonal employees, regardless of their working hours
independent contractors, business owners or temporary agency workers, including individuals listed as directors, shareholders or agents of the Alberta employer on the Corporate Registry System (CORES)
employees who work in Alberta in a place of employment that is not zoned for commercial or industrial operations, such as a home-based business
employees who do not work on premises in Alberta, such as those who work in a ‘virtual’ location or serve the employer by telecommuting from a location outside Alberta
foreign nationals in Canada without a valid work permit
Qualifying work experience requirements
At the time your application is submitted, you must have a minimum of 12 months full-time work experience in an eligible occupation within the last 18 months prior to your application. This work experience can be a combination of experience gained in Alberta, in Canada (outside Alberta) or abroad.
For all applicants, work experience in the qualifying period must:
have been paid full-time employment, for a minimum of 30 hours a week
meet the TEER category requirements
meet the occupation requirements above
Table 2. Job offer and work experience TEER Categories.
TEER Category of job offer or current occupation is:
TEER Category of work experience must be:
TEER 0
TEER 0 or 1
TEER 1
TEER 0, 1 or 2
TEER 2
TEER 1, 2, 3 or 4
TEER 3
TEER 1, 2, 3 or 4
TEER 4
TEER 2, 3, 4 or 5
TEER 5
TEER 5 and must be in the same occupation – NOC code
have been authorized by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) and with valid temporary resident status if obtained in Canada
not have been gained while studying in Canada and doing co-op work placements or internships as part of a study program, unless you are a PGWP holder who completed paid co-op work terms as a part of your program of study at an Alberta post-secondary institution. To qualify, the work terms must have been:
paid and full-time (minimum 30 hours per week), and
for work experience all gained in Alberta
Post-Graduation Work Permit holders who have completed a 2-year post-secondary education program at an IRCC designated learning institution in their Designated Community are not required to meet the 12 months of work experience criterion.
Licensing, registration and certification requirements
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must meet the following licensing, registration and certification requirements:
You must have the required licensing, registration or certification to work in your current occupation in Alberta or occupation in your Alberta job offer. Information on the occupation specific requirements is on the Alis website.
If you are working or have a job offer in a compulsory trade in Alberta, you must have a valid Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Trade (AIT) recognized trade certificate.
If you are working as childcare worker in Alberta, you must have valid certification as a Level 2 Early Childhood Educator (formerly Child Development Worker) or Level 3 Early Childhood Educator (formerly Child Development Supervisor) prior to applying to AAIP.
Language requirements
Important: You must confirm the TEER Category for your job offer/occupation in the NOC 2021 version and use the TEER Category to determine the minimum language score using Table 3 below.
At the time your application is submitted, you must demonstrate that you meet the following language test score in English or French.
Table 3. Language requirements.
National Occupational Classification (NOC) TEER category
Canadian Language Benchmark (CLB) test score required
Niveaux de compétence linguistique canadiens (NCLC) test score required
If your job offer is for NOC 0, 1, 2 or 3 occupation
Minimum of 5 for each English language skill
Minimum of 5 for each French language skill
If your job offer is for NOC 4 or 5 occupation
Minimum of 4 for each English language skill
Minimum of 4 for each French language skill
You must provide your official test results with your AAIP application for one of the following language tests:
Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) General Test
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training Test
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
Test d'évaluation de français Canada (TEF Canada)
Test de connaissance du français Canada (TCF Canada)
Official test results must be less than 2 years old at the time your application was submitted. AAIP will not accept confirmation of registration to take a language test in place of a test result.
Check the IRCC guideline on CLB NCLC equivalency for each of the tests.
Education requirements
At the time your application is submitted, you must have completed a minimum of high school education equivalent to the Canadian education standard.
Educational Credential Assessment (ECA)
At the time you submit your application, you must provide a copy of an Educational Credential Assessment (ECA) issued by an organization designated by IRCC for your highest level of education. If your ECA report shows that your credential is not equal to completion of at least a Canadian high school diploma, or the ECA states your foreign educational institution is not recognized, you do not meet the education requirement.
You do not need to provide an ECA if:
you have a Canadian degree, diploma or certificate from a Canadian post-secondary, technical college or secondary institution listed as:
a recognized institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, or
an authorized, registered, or licensed institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, and the institution was authorized by Advanced Education (for Alberta credentials) or a Canadian provincial or territorial body responsible for education (for credentials issued elsewhere in Canada) to grant your degree, diploma or certificate. Contact your educational institution, Advanced Education (Alberta credentials only) or the appropriate provincial or territorial ministry to confirm if your institution had the authority to grant your credential.
you have a valid Alberta Qualification Certificate or a trade certificate recognized by Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training (AIT).
AAIP reserves the right to request an ECA from any candidate or to seek an internal educational assessment from the International Qualification Assessment Service (IQAS) or Advanced Education to confirm a candidate meets the minimum Canadian high school equivalent requirement.
Settlement fund requirements
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must demonstrate that you have sufficient funds to support yourself and your family members to settle in your designated community if:
you are not residing in Canada, or
you are currently in Canada but are not working
Minimum settlement funds requirements are based on the Low Income Cut-Offs (LICOs). The amount of settlement funds you must have depends on the number of family members you have, including yourself, and the population size of your designated community where you plan to settle in Alberta.
Table 4. Settlement funds requirement for Rural Renewal Stream in Canadian dollars.
Population size of the community and funds required
Number of family members
Less than 1,000
1,000 to 30,000
30,000 to 99,999
1
$8,922
$10,151
$11,093
2
$11,107
$12,636
$13,810
3
$13,655
$15,534
$16,977
4
$16,579
$18,861
$20,613
5
$18,803
$21,392
$23,379
6
$21,208
$24,127
$26,367
7
$23,611
$26,861
$29,356
Amount of funds required for each additional family member
$2,404
$2,735
$2,989
Funds must be unencumbered and readily available to you to meet the minimum settlement funds requirement. Real estate property, jewelry, cars and other personal assets are not eligible.
If your spouse is coming with you, you can count money you have together in a joint account. You may be able to count money in an account under your spouse’s name only, but you must prove you have access to the money.
The funds must be available at the time of application and assessment. You must prove to an AAIP officer that you can legally access the funds when you arrive in Alberta.
You must provide official letters from any banks or financial institutions where your funds are kept.
Letters must:
be printed on the financial institution’s letterhead
include contact information of the financial institution – address, telephone number and email address
include your name
list all outstanding debts such as credit card debts and loans
include, for each current bank and investment account, the:
account numbers
date each account was opened
current balance of each account
In addition, ensure you include bank statements showing transactions made within the past 3 months, and the average balance for the past 6 months.
Ensure you review each section to confirm all requirements have been met. Ensure all necessary documentation is submitted for a complete application.
Contact
Connect with the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program if you have questions about this program.
Back to
Rural Renewal Stream
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta