Tourism and Hospitality Stream – Eligibility | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Tourism and Hospitality Stream
Eligibility
Part of
Tourism and Hospitality Stream
Tourism and Hospitality Stream – Eligibility
Requirements for approved employer and occupation, employment, language and education requirements for eligible applicants.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Tourism and Hospitality Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Overview
Tourism and Hospitality Stream criteria may apply at the time your application is submitted, at the time the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) assesses your application, or both. Review the criteria carefully to understand eligibility requirements.
Approved employer requirements
Your current employment, and Alberta job offer must be with a single, approved Tourism and Hospitality employer.
Requirements for approved Tourism and Hospitality employers are provided below.
Eligible industries and Worker’s Compensation Board – Alberta coverage requirements
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, your Alberta employer’s primary business activities must belong to an eligible industry, as defined by the Worker's Compensation Board (WCB) – Alberta industry code or exempt activities.
At the time your application is submitted, you must demonstrate that your Alberta employer has valid WCB coverage or is exempt from needing coverage through a WCB clearance letter.
Use Table 1 to determine if your Alberta employer’s primary business activities belong to an eligible WCB Industry. If you need assistance in determining a WCB industry, or if you need to know if coverage is required, contact WCB – Alberta.
Table 1. List of eligible WCB industries.
Eligible WCB industries and exempt activities
WCB industry code
Sample activities
Museums, Art Galleries
80701
Art Galleries, Art Museums, Interpretive Centres, Museums
Zoos, Game Farms
80703
Game Farms, Zoos
Bowling Alleys, Billiard Parlours
85300
Billiard Parlours, Bowling Alleys, Pool Halls
Golf Clubs, Ranges
85900
Operation of Driving Ranges, Golf Courses
Ski Resorts, Gondolas
85904
Operation of Chairlifts, Gondolas, Ski Instruction, Ski Resorts
Casinos, Dance Halls
85916
Casino Halls, Dance Halls
Arenas, Stadiums
85919
Arenas, Stadiums, Race Tracks
Travel Agency, Motor Association
85925
Operation of Wildlife and Wilderness Associations, Tour Guides, Tourist Promotion, Park Associations
Restaurants, Catering
87501
Operation of Coffee Shops, Drive-In Restaurants, Restaurants, Take-Out Services, Bartending Services
Hotels, Convention Centres
87503
Operation of Bed and Breakfast, Cabins and Motels, Convention Centres
Sports and Recreation
87600
Operation of Amusement Parks and Rec Resorts, Hot Air Ballooning, Boats, Pleasure and Water Tours, Campsites
Property Management, Hostels
89702
Operation of Hostels, Bingo Halls, Airports
Private Clubs
87508
Private Clubs, Sporting Clubs, Fitness Clubs and Gun Clubs
Operation of a Curling Rink
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Operation of an Ice Skating Rink
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Operation of a Cricket Field
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Operation of a Convention Bureau
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Operation of an Information Bureau
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Promotions, sports and entertainment
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Professional sports
Multiple
Activity is identified within multiple WCB industries/codes
Sector association and Travel Alberta membership requirements
At the time your application is submitted, your Alberta employer must be a member of an eligible sector association, provided in Table 2 below.
A sector association membership ensures the employer’s operations are legitimately established and recognized within the province. The sector association membership requirement must be met to be considered eligible in this stream. Most tourism and hospitality employers in Alberta are eligible for membership in at least one of the sector associations.
An exemption may be considered if an Alberta employer can demonstrate, through documentation from the applicable sector associations listed in Table 2 below, that they could not qualify to be a member. The employer must also be listed as an Experience Provider on the Travel Alberta website and meet Travel Alberta's requirements.
Table 2. List of eligible sector associations.
Sector
Sector association
Accommodations
Alberta Hotel and Lodging Association
Accommodations
Alberta Bed and Breakfast Association
Food and Beverage
Restaurants Canada
Food and Beverage
Alberta Hospitality Association
Indigenous Tourism
Indigenous Tourism Alberta
Recreation and Entertainment
Canadian Association of Tour Operators
Recreation and Entertainment
Canada West Ski Areas Association
Recreation and Entertainment
Association of Canadian Mountain Guides
Recreation and Entertainment
Alberta Golf Association
Meetings, Conventions, and Incentive Tourism
Convention Centres Canada
Tourism and Hospitality
Tourism Industry Association of Alberta
Tourism and Hospitality
Tourism HR Canada
Tourism and Hospitality
Indigenous Tourism Association of Canada
Tourism and Hospitality
Banff & Lake Louise Hospitality Association
Occupation, employment requirements
Eligible occupations
Your current employment in Alberta and Alberta job offer must all be for an eligible occupation.
Table 3. List of eligible occupations.
NOC code (2021)
Occupation
NOC TEER category
54100
Program leaders and instructors in recreation, sport, and fitness
4
60030
Restaurant and food services managers
0
60031
Accommodation service managers
0
62020
Food service supervisors
2
62200
Chefs
2
63200
Cooks
3
64300
Maîtres d’hôtel and hosts/hostesses
4
64301
Bartenders
4
64314
Hotel front desk clerks
4
64320
Tour and travel guides
4
64322
Outdoor sport and recreational guides
4
65200
Food and beverage servers
5
65201
Food counter attendants, kitchen helpers and related support occupations
5
65210
Support occupations in accommodation, travel, and facilities set-up services
5
65310
Light duty cleaners
5
65311
Specialized cleaners
5
65312
Janitors, caretakers, and heavy-duty cleaners
5
65320
Dry cleaning, laundry, and related occupations
5
If you are unsure whether your occupation is on this list:
find your occupation on the NOC website, based on your job title and job duties
contact the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Current employment
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must:
be living and working in Alberta in an eligible occupation for an approved Tourism and Hospitality employer; and
have a valid work permit based on:
a positive Labour Market Impact Assessment for an eligible occupation, or
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada temporary special measures for those directly affected by wildfires.Note: maintained status is not considered a substitute for a valid work permit. Other types of work permits are not eligible at the time of application submission.
Work experience
At the time your application is submitted and at the time AAIP assesses your application, you must have been working full-time (30 hours per week minimum) with an approved Tourism and Hospitality employer, in one of the eligible occupations, for a minimum of 6 consecutive months (or minimum of 780 hours) the time you apply.
Work experience:
must have been for the same employer as your current Alberta job offer
must have been paid
must have been authorized by Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada and with valid temporary resident status if completed in Alberta or Canada
Job offer or employment contract
Applicants must meet the following requirements when an application is submitted and when we assess it:
You must have a full-time job offer or employment contract for an eligible occupation in Alberta with your current employer.
You must have 6 consecutive months (780 hours) of work experience with your current employer.
Your Alberta job offer or employment contract and the Alberta employer offering the job must meet all Alberta job offer and employment requirements.
You are responsible for working with your Alberta employer to ensure that all Alberta employer requirements are met.
Your application will be declined if these requirements are not met.
Ineligible applicants based on job offer
The following individuals are not eligible to apply for or be nominated, even if they have a job offer to work 30 hours a week or more in a 12-month period:
part-time, casual or seasonal employees, regardless of their working hours
independent contractors, business owners or temporary agency workers, including individuals listed as directors, shareholders or agents of the Alberta employer on the Corporate Registry System (CORES)
employees who work in Alberta in a place of employment that is not zoned for commercial or industrial operations, such as a home-based business
employees who do not work on premises in Alberta, such as those who work in a ‘virtual’ location or serve the employer by telecommuting from a location outside Alberta
You are responsible for working with your Alberta employer to ensure that the employer and job offer or employment contract requirements are met and that all required employer and job offer or employment documents are submitted with your application. Your application will be declined if these requirements are not met. Your application fee will not be refunded where an application is declined based on employer requirements not being met.
Language requirements
At the time your application is submitted, you must demonstrate you meet the following language test score:
minimum of 4 for each English language skill, or
minimum of 4 for each French language skill
You must provide official test results for one of these accepted language tests:
Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) General Test
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) General Training Test
Pearson Test of English (PTE)
Test d'évaluation de français Canada (TEF Canada)
Test de connaissance du français Canada (TCF Canada)
Official test results must be less than 2 years old at the time your application was submitted. The date used to determine the age of your tests results is the date you took the test, not the date your test results were released. AAIP will not accept confirmation of registration to take a language test in place of a test result.
Check the federal guideline on CLB/NCLC equivalency for each of the tests.
Education requirements
At the time your application is submitted, you must have completed a minimum of high school education equivalent to Canadian standards.
At the time you submit your application, you must provide a copy of an Educational Credential Assessment (ECA) issued by an organization designated by IRCC for your highest level of education. If your ECA report shows that your credential is not equal to completion of Canadian high school or the ECA states your foreign educational institution is not recognized, you do not meet the education requirement.
You do not need to provide an ECA if:
you have a Canadian degree, diploma or certificate from a Canadian post-secondary, technical college or secondary institution listed as:
a recognized institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, or
an authorized, registered, or licensed institution in the Directory of Educational Institutions in Canada, and the institution was authorized by Advanced Education to grant your degree, diploma or certificate. Contact your educational institution or Advanced Education to confirm if your institution had the authority to grant your credential
you have a valid Alberta Qualification Certificate or a trade certificate recognized by Alberta Apprenticeship and Industry Training.
AAIP reserves the right to request an ECA from any candidate or to seek an internal educational assessment from the International Qualification Assessment Service or Advanced Education to confirm a candidate meets the minimum Canadian high school equivalent requirement.
Back to
Tourism and Hospitality Stream
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta