Express Entry: Canadian Experience Class - Canada.ca
Skip to main content
Skip to "About government"
Language selection
Français
fr
/
Gouvernement du Canada
Search
Search IRCC
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Manage life events
Sign in
IRCC sign inIRCC sign in
You are here:
Canada.ca
Immigration and citizenship
Live in Canada
Immigrate through Express Entry
Express Entry: Who can apply
Express Entry
Who can apply
Canadian Experience Class
Federal Skilled Worker Program
Federal Skilled Trades Program
Check your score
Get your documents ready
Create your profile
Rounds of invitations
Apply for permanent residence
After you apply
If we approve your application
Canadian Experience Class
The Canadian Experience Class is for skilled workers who have Canadian work experience and want to become permanent
residents.
On this page
Canadian skilled work experience
Language ability
Education
Admissibility
Where you can live in Canada
Canadian skilled work experience
First, find out the National Occupational Classification (NOC) for your job. Then check if it meets the requirements
for skilled work experience.
Find your NOC
Your skilled work experience must:
be in 1 or more of these NOC categories: training, education, experience and
responsibilities (TEER) 0, 1, 2, or 3
Your experience can be in more than 1 NOC.
be gained by working in Canada while authorized to work under
temporary resident status
If you worked remotely, you must have been physically in Canada
and working for a Canadian employer.
show that you performed:
the actions in the lead statement of the NOC
job description, and
most of the main duties listed
be paid work (you must have been paid wages or earned commission—volunteer work or
unpaid internships don’t count)
be at least 1 year of work or 1,560 hours total (30 hours per week)
in the 3 years before you apply
Your skilled work experience must meet all the above requirements to be eligible.
Choose the NOC that most closely aligns with your work experience. This will:
avoid processing delays
make sure you’re assessed against the correct program
Your skilled work experience meets the criteria
You may be eligible for the Canadian Experience Class if you meet all other minimum requirements.
How to count your work hours
You can meet the 1,560 hour requirement in a few different ways:
full time at 1 job: up to 30 hours a week for 12 months = 1 year full time (1,560 hours)
equal amount in part-time work: for example 15 hours a week for 24 months = 1 year full
time (1,560 hours)
You can work as many part-time jobs as you need to meet this requirement.
full time at more than 1 job: 30 hours a week for 12 months at more than 1 job = 1 year
full time (1,560 hours)
Self-employment and student work experience
Self-employment and work experience gained while you were a full-time student (even if you were on a co-op work
term) doesn’t count toward the minimum requirements for this program.
Exemption for physicians
We introduced a temporary
public policy for foreign national physicians who:
were invited to apply for permanent residence through Express Entry on or after April 25, 2023, and
submitted an application
have work experience in providing publicly funded medical services in Canada (such as fee-for-service work)
and
aren’t eligible because they’re self-employed
We now count this work experience as Canadian work experience. When you create
your Express Entry profile, to make it possible for your work experience to count as Canadian work
experience, do not check the “Self-employed work” checkbox under Work experience in
Canada.
Language ability
You must:
take
approved language tests in English or French
meet the minimum
score in all 4 abilities:
writing
reading
listening
speaking
Education
There is no education requirement for the Canadian Experience Class.
If you want to improve your rank in the pool
If you want to improve your rank in the Express Entry pool, there are 2 ways you can do this.
If you went to school in Canada, you can get points for a certificate, diploma or degree
from a Canadian high school or post-secondary institution.
If you have foreign education, you can get points if you have both of these:
a completed educational
credential
an educational
credential assessment report for immigration purposes
Admissibility
You must be admissible
to Canada.
Some people aren’t allowed to come to Canada. There are different reasons we may not let you into Canada, such as
security, criminal or medical reasons.
Where you can live in Canada
You must plan to live outside the province of Quebec. The province of Quebec selects its own skilled
workers. If you plan on living in Quebec, see Quebec-selected
skilled workers for more information.
You can count work experience gained while living in Quebec, as long as you can prove you don’t plan to settle there.
You’ll have to include proof and expect officers to check anything you provide.
When you fill out your profile, we’ll ask you where you plan to live in Canada.
If you’re a Provincial Nominee, you must settle in the province or territory that nominated you.
Document navigation
Next: Check your score
Page details
2026-06-22
About this site
Immigration and citizenship
Help Centre
Contact us
Check your application status
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Government of Canada Corporate
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy