Apply for certification | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Family and social supports
Family supports
Parenting
Childcare
Early childhood educators
Apply for certification
Part of
Early childhood educators
Apply for certification
Learn about certification levels, requirements and how to apply to become a certified early childhood educator.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Early childhood educators
Apply for the ECE Bursary
Apply for certification
Find a certified ECE
Funding for working ECEs
Minister's Awards of Excellence in Child Development
Childcare curriculum review for private career colleges
Contact us
Overview
If you want to work in a licensed daycare, preschool program, as a family day home educator operating under a licensed agency, or in out-of-school care, you are required to be certified as an early childhood educator (ECE).
Childcare staff must be certified within 6 months of employment and must not have unsupervised access to children until they have met the core requirements, including being certified. Continue reading to learn how to become certified at each level.
ECE Certification Application
Use the online ECE Certification Application to:
apply for certification
replace your certificate
ECE Certification Application
Certification guide
The Certification Guide for Early Childhood Educators outlines all the requirements and processes to apply for and maintain certification under the Early Learning and Child Care Act and Regulation:
Certification Guide for Early Childhood Educators
Requirements
Below is an overview of the educational and conduct requirements for ECEs. Be sure to read the guide for more details about the steps and documents needed for becoming and staying certified.
Educational requirements
Level 1 ECE
To be certified for Level 1, you must complete one of the following:
45 hour (3 credits) post-secondary early learning and childcare course related to child development
Early Childhood Education Orientation Course (see below)
CCS 3110, 3120, 3130, 3140 and 3150 (offered through Career and Technology Studies at Alberta high schools)
ELCC coursework with outcomes that focus on diversity or Indigenous learnings, as approved by Education and Childcare
Level 2 ECE
To be certified for Level 2, you must complete:
1-year early learning and childcare certification program offered by an approved Alberta public college, private career college or university, or an approved educational equivalency
Level 3 ECE
To be certified for Level 3, you have to complete:
2-year early learning and childcare diploma program offered by an approved Alberta public college, private career college or university or an approved educational equivalency
See Appendix D of the Certification Guide for a list of Alberta educational institutions offering approved early learning and childcare (ELCC) programs.
Educational equivalencies
If you do not have education in early learning and childcare, you can refer to the educational credentials chart in Appendix C of the Certification Guide to determine if your education is recognized for certification.
Early Childhood Education Orientation Course
The Early Childhood Education Orientation Course is for Alberta residents who do not have post-secondary educational studies in early learning and childcare.
This non-credit course is available online and meets the eligibility requirements to be a certified Level 1 ECE in Alberta. The course is funded by the Alberta government and is offered at no cost to participants. The course is available in both English and French.
To register for the course, applicants must be at least 16 years of age, and be a Canadian citizen, a Permanent Resident Card holder or a Work or Study Visa holder legally residing in Alberta.
Registration is capped monthly for the general public, and registrants will be prioritized if they are already working, have proof of employment in a licensed childcare program or approved day home, or are currently attending a high school in Alberta.
Work permit conditions such as (but not limited to) those that state 'not eligible to work in childcare' mean that the person would not be eligible for the Early Childhood Education Orientation Course.
If the person has a closed work permit working in a field unrelated to childcare, they are not eligible to take the course.
Suivez le cours en français
Le cours d’orientation en ligne sur la garde d’enfants est maintenant offert en français. Pour la version francaise de ce cours, veuillez visiter Cours d'orientation sur l'éducation de la petite enfance.
Self-reporting conduct requirements
ECEs are required to follow the conduct requirements outlined in the Certification guide. ECEs must report any current or ongoing investigation, charge, court hearing, trial or conviction to the Government of Alberta, for any offences identified in Appendix B of the Certification Guide.
To meet conduct requirements, fill out and sign the Self-Disclosure Reporting Form, then submit the form to the Certification Office:
By mail:
Childcare Staff Certification OfficeEducation and Childcare6th Floor Forestry Building, 9920 108 StreetEdmonton, Alberta  T5K 2M4
By email: [email protected]
Note: Fillable PDF forms may not open properly on some mobile devices and web browsers. See the step-by-step guide or contact PDF form technical support.
How to apply
Before you apply for certification, read the Certification Guide to make sure you are eligible and understand all the steps. The guide includes information about the educational and language proficiency requirements.
Once you have read the guide, review the application instructions below, then apply online:
Early Childhood Educator Certification Application
Apply using an Alberta.ca Account
To complete the application process, you will need an Alberta.ca Account to sign in. If you do not already have one, all you need is an email address to create a basic account:
Create an Alberta.ca Account
An Alberta.ca account allows you to start an application, stop, and then come back to it later. If you are in the middle of an application, simply log back in to continue.
Once you have created your account, log into the online Early Childhood Educator Certification Application.
Level 1 ECE certification
For Level 1, you will be asked to send copies of your educational transcripts or statement of marks verifying completion of one of the following:
45 hour (3 credits) post-secondary early learning and childcare course related to child development
Early Childhood Education Orientation Course
CCS 3110, 3120, 3130, 3140 and 3150 (offered through Career and Technology Studies at Alberta high schools)
ELCC coursework with outcomes that focus on diversity or Indigenous learnings, as approved by Education and Childcare
Level 2 and Level 3 ECE certification
For levels 2 and 3, when requested by the Childcare Staff Certification Office, you must arrange for your official transcripts to be sent directly from your educational institution to the Childcare Staff Certification Office.
If your education was completed outside of Canada, refer to the Certification Guide to determine if you require a language proficiency assessment or other additional documents.
If you need help or have questions about using the ECE certification online application, call the Childcare Staff Certification Office at 1-800-661-9754 (in Alberta) or 780-422-1119 (outside of Alberta).
After you apply
After your application is assessed, you will receive an email instructing you to log in to your ECE portal account to access new communication from us, as well as your ECE certificate if you meet the certification requirements.
Certification processing times are about 4 to 6 weeks. Once you are certified, your name and certification information will be publicly searchable on the Early Childhood Educator Lookup Tool.
Request a reassessment
If you have a new approved educational credential, or if you have completed additional requirements noted in your assessment results, you may request a reassessment by completing the following form:
Request for Reassessment form
Include any additional information that might be useful for the reassessment, such as the new educational credential or proof of completing the additional requirements noted in your assessment results.
The completed request form and additional documents can be uploaded to the online portal by logging in to your ECE portal account. If you are unable to upload your documents, email them to [email protected].
If your credentials were obtained outside Alberta or under a different regulatory authority, they may be referred to the appropriate regulatory body for verification or assessment of equivalency.
Request for review
If you do not have new educational credentials or documents to provide but you believe your educational credential is eligible for a higher level of certification, you may ask to have your certification assessment reviewed. After the request for review is completed, no further reviews will be considered.
To request a review, you can log in to your ECE portal account to submit the request and provide an explanation.
Change of certification status
If your certification status has been changed to ‘conditional’, ‘suspended’, or ‘cancelled’, you have the right to appeal the decision. Learn how this can be done through a formal appeal.
Replacement certificates
If you were granted certification and received your certificate via the ECE portal, please log in to your ECE portal account to access your certificate. If you received a paper copy of your certificate by mail, you can create an ECE portal account to download it directly.
Contact
Connect with the Childcare Staff Certification Office:
Hours: 8:15 am to 4:30 pm (open Monday to Friday, closed statutory holidays)Toll free: 1-800-661-9754 (in Alberta) or 780-422-1119 outside of AlbertaEmail: [email protected]
There are no in-person services available.
Related
ECE Certification Application
Understand Alberta’s childcare system – For programs and providers
Start a childcare program
Approved family day homes
Contact us – For programs and providers
Previous
Apply for the ECE Bursary
Next
Find a certified ECE
Lead ministry:
Education and Childcare
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta