Rural Renewal Stream – Community designation | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Rural Renewal Stream
Community designation
Part of
Rural Renewal Stream
Rural Renewal Stream – Community designation
Communities with the capacity to attract, recruit and welcome newcomers, can apply to participate in this stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Rural Renewal Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Community designation
Overview
The Rural Renewal Stream is one of several immigration streams to address local labour needs and skill shortages in rural Alberta communities and helps newcomers settle into the community. This stream requires a community to apply to the Government of Alberta for community designation.
This stream is both voluntary and community driven. Once designated, the community then works with employers to attract, recruit and retain newcomers by sharing information on settlement supports. This may include accommodation, education, health care and services such as language training.
Designated communities will each receive a yearly allocation from which they are able to recruit and endorse candidates to fill their local labour needs. A candidate must be selected and endorsed by a designated community and meet all criteria for the Rural Renewal Stream.
Candidates should not apply to the province of Alberta if they do not have an endorsement of candidate letter from a designated community.
Designated communities
List of current designated communities
Table 1. List of designated communities and designation date.
Community
Designation Date
City of Brooks (including: Town of Bassano, Village of Duchess, County of Newell, Village of Rosemary)
May 13, 2022
City of Grande Prairie
July 6, 2022
Town of Innisfail (including: Town of Olds, Town of Bowden)
September 9, 2022
Municipal District of Smoky River (including: Town of Falher, Village of Donnelly, Village of Girouxville)
September 9, 2022
County of Grande Prairie (including: Town of Sexsmith, Town of Wembley, Town of Beaverlodge, Village of Rycroft)
September 9, 2022
Town of Trochu (including: Village of Acme, Town of Three Hills, Village of Linden)
September 9, 2022
Fort McMurray – Wood Buffalo
September 9, 2022
Municipality of Jasper
September 13, 2022
Town of Hinton
November 8, 2022
City of Medicine Hat (including: Town of Bow Island)
January 13, 2023
Town of Fox Creek
February 13, 2023
City of Cold Lake
March 10, 2023
County of St. Paul (including: Town of St Paul, Town of Elk Point, Summer Village of Horseshoe Bay)
March 10, 2023
Town of Drayton Valley
March 10, 2023
Town of Slave Lake (including: Sawridge First Nation, Town of High Prairie, Municipal District of Opportunity, Big Lakes County)
March 10, 2023
City of Lloydminster
March 29, 2023
Town of Westlock
March 29, 2023
Town of Peace River
June 14, 2023
City of Wetaskiwin
August 2, 2023
Special Areas 2, 3, 4 (including: Town of Hanna, Town of Oyen, Village of Consort, Village of Empress, Village of Veteran, Village of Youngstown, Municipal District of Acadia No. 34)
August 2, 2023
Growth Regional Economic Development Alliance (including: Woodlands County, Town of Swan Hills)
September 22, 2023
County of Northern Lights (including: Town of Manning)
September 22, 2023
Town of Bonnyville
September 22, 2023
Town of Two Hills
September 22, 2023
Lac La Biche County (including: Hamlet of Lac La Biche, Hamlet of Plamondon and Greater Region)
October 4, 2023
Town of High Level
December 14, 2023
Town of Didsbury
December 14, 2023
Town of Coronation (including, County of Paintearth, Hamlet of Brownfield, Town of Castor)
September 9, 2024
Smoky Lake Region (including Smoky Lake County, Town of Smoky Lake, Village of Vilna, Village of Waskatenau)
September 9, 2024
Town of Rocky Mountain House
December 13, 2024
Town of Edson
February 5, 2025
Community designation
Interested communities fill out a Community Designation Application form. Additional points will be awarded for communities with less than 10,000 residents. Once a community is designated, they will be able to attract, recruit and retain newcomers using this stream.
Mandatory requirements
An application will only be evaluated if all of the mandatory requirements below are met:
rural communities with a population less than 100,000
rural communities in the same economic region may form a partnership to submit an application
annual population figures will be used to determine population count (population figures will be reviewed annually)
communities must fall outside of the Calgary and Edmonton census metropolitan area
one or more employers are interested in participating and have permanent (minimum 12 months), full-time, non-seasonal employment available
an endorsement letter of support from participating town or municipal councils signed by the mayor or reeve
application is signed and submitted by the economic development organization with a primary function in economic development
includes an economic development plan or similar document (does not need to be current)
Uses not allowed
The Rural Renewal Stream cannot be used for:
recruiting part-time or seasonal workers
individuals nominated under the stream will still need to be licensed by the respective Provincial Regulatory Organization (PRO) if their occupation is regulated or meet Alberta industry trade standards for a specific trade in Alberta
Learn more about regulated occupations in Alberta
Learn more about industry trade standards in Alberta
permanent residency approval is still required by the Government of Canada
How to apply
Before you apply
Communities must have the capacity to attract, recruit and welcome newcomers in order to participate in the Rural Renewal Stream. A Rural Renewal Stream candidate is a foreign national who does not have permanent residence or Canadian citizenship. This person could be living in or outside of Canada.
Read the Rural Renewal Stream Factsheet.
Community requirements
Communities will be responsible for:
identifying and working with community employers that have permanent (minimum of 12 months, full-time, non-seasonal) jobs that need to be filled
connecting with a settlement providing organizations to identify and plan for some of the settlement needs within the community
​developing additional criteria (optional) to recruit foreign nationals
this could include narrowing down the occupations that the community is interested in recruiting
responding to foreign national inquiries while community is actively recruiting
collaborating with employers on selecting and endorsing the foreign national
developing and implementing a plan for welcoming and settling foreign national(s) to the community
There is no direct funding for the Rural Renewal Stream. However, the Government of Alberta offers grants to support capacity building of small centre or rural areas to attract, welcome and retain newcomers in rural Alberta. These grants are part of an annual call for proposals that support community capacity building.
Learn more about these grants
Complete the application form
An economic development organization fills out the application in partnership with the community.
Rural Renewal Community Designation Application form
Note: Incomplete applications and/or applications that do not have all of the mandatory requirements will not be evaluated.
Designation support letter from participating town or municipal councils signed by the mayor or reeve
The letter should outline the following on the official letterhead:
name and address of the participating town or municipality supporting the application
participating town/municipality acknowledges support for this project and the meeting date that this project was discussed
participating town or municipality acknowledges that their community name will be posted on the Government of Alberta website should their community become designated
name, title and contact information of the mayor or reeve issuing the designation support letter
Submit the application
The completed application and supporting documents need to be submitted for designation by email to [email protected].
Applications will be evaluated on a points system (points for each category are noted in the application). Communities must score a minimum of 150 points in order to be considered for designation. In the event that multiple applications are received at the same time, selection will be based on top scores.
After you have submitted
Albera Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) representatives will review the initial application and let the applicant know if the application is complete (all sections of the application are fully completed and all mandatories have been provided or met). The amount of time this review will take will depend on the volume of applications.
Once the application has been reviewed and deemed complete, the applicant will receive an email confirming the official date of submission. At this point, the application cannot be altered.
The application will be evaluated and an AAIP representative will contact the community to indicate the status of the application within 8 weeks of the official submission date. The applicant will be notified if more time is needed and will be notified of the outcome of the application via email.
Community designation will last 3 years to the date that the community received email confirmation of designation.
There will be an option to extend the designation by an additional 2 years to a maximum of 5 years. Extension information will be provided to communities as required.
After receiving designation
Attract and recruit
A designated community, in partnership with their local economic development organization and participating employers, are responsible for recruiting foreign nationals. Candidates may be recruited from within Alberta, Canada or outside of Canada.
Candidates that are currently living in Canada are only eligible if they have legal status in Canada. If the community is recruiting outside Canada, all IRCC immigration rules and regulations apply. The Government of Alberta will not compensate the community for any recruitment costs.
The community partnership reviews candidate applications to ensure candidates meet all criteria, including the program eligibility. Communities may choose to have additional criteria separate from the mandatory criteria. This can include a particular skill set or certain occupations that help the community fill a specific labour need.
The employer provides a job offer to the successful candidate and the community endorses the newcomer.
Select and endorse newcomers
All candidates must have an Endorsement of Candidate letter from their Designated Community. Endorsement of Candidate letter is only valid for one year from the date of issuance.
Content for the Endorsement of Candidate letter
Endorsement letters are valid for one year from the date of issuance. The letter must be on the official letterhead and issued by the local economic development organization of the community and must outline the following:
date of issuance
name and address of the economic development organization supporting the application
candidate’s full name and residential address
details of the bona fide job offer:
name of the business
name and contact information of the employer
location of employment
position and description of job duties
duration of employment and work conditions
detailed description of how filling the position offered aligns with the economic growth of the designated community
the employer’s efforts to fill the position within Canada and outcomes
name, title and contact information of the person issuing the endorsement of the candidate
Permanent residency
Candidate applies to AAIP.
The candidate submits their application through the AAIP Portal ensuring all criteria for Rural Renewal Stream is met.
Nominee applies to Immigration Refugees and Citizenship Canada for permanent residency.
The Government of Canada makes the final decision on permanent residency applications. A nomination by the province does not guarantee an approved permanent residency application.
Welcome and integrate newcomers
It is the responsibility of the community to identify what kind of settlement supports they will offer, develop and implement a settlement plan to help the newcomer and their family settle into the community.
Alberta Municipalities has resources around welcoming and inclusive communities.
Alberta Association of Immigrant Serving Agencies has a list of immigration serving organizations.
Pre-arrival settlement services are available through the Government of Canada for permanent residents. The province has some services available for nominated temporary residents in Canada with a valid work permit.
Make Alberta your home
Community evaluation
An evaluation of the community designation may be conducted at the end of the designation period. The community will need to participate in the evaluation by providing information as requested.
Communities interested in extending their designation will be provided information on the process.
Contact
Connect with us if you have questions about community designation:Email: [email protected]
Previous
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta