Alberta Express Entry Stream | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Alberta Express Entry Stream
English
Français
Part of
AAIP application streams
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Qualified candidates with an Express Entry profile may be invited by AAIP to apply for nomination for permanent residence.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Eligibility
After you are nominated
Read important program and fee updates to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) and its 8 intake streams.
Introduction
The Alberta Express Entry Stream allows Alberta to nominate a limited number of qualified candidates from Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada’s Express Entry system. Priorities and approaches towards selection of candidates in the Alberta Express Entry System are shared as a courtesy and are subject to change without prior notice.
In focus
How to apply to AAIP worker streams
Application process to be nominated for any of the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) worker streams.
Alberta Express Entry Stream – Eligibility
Find out if you meet the requirements for being asked by the province of Alberta to apply to this immigration stream.
Alberta Express Entry Stream – After you are nominated
After your AAIP nomination is accepted, you may apply to the Government of Canada for permanent residence.
Stream selections
Candidates may be asked to submit an application if they have either:
a job offer from an Alberta employer in the health care sector and are licensed to practice in one of the eligible health care professions under the Dedicated Health Care Pathway. Applicants may fall under Express Entry or Non-Express Entry options and expedited processing applies.
a job offer for an eligible tech occupation from an Alberta employer in an eligible tech industry under the Accelerated Tech Pathway. An initial Accelerated Tech Pathway web form is required as a first step and expedited processing applies.
a job offer from an Alberta Association of Chiefs of Police member in one of the eligible police services occupations under the Law Enforcement Pathway. Expedited processing applies.
experience needed to help support labour needs in keys sectors, including construction, agriculture and aviation
Employer fees are illegal
Employers and employment agencies cannot charge employees fees for a job or employment offer. If an employer is charging you a fee of any kind we can help. Call the Alberta government information line at 310-0000 and ask for Employment Standards or the Temporary Foreign Worker Advisory Office.
Contact
Connect with us if you have questions about the program: Use the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
Back to
AAIP application streams
Next
Eligibility
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta