Alberta Advantage Immigration Program – Expired streams | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Expired streams
Part of
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program – Expired streams
Information for individuals who applied under Alberta Advantage Immigration Program streams, categories or initiatives that are now closed.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Processing information
Expired streams
Job offer and employer requirements
Learning resources
Updates
AAIP answers for common questions
Reporting fraud
Overview
The Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) is subject to change over time. The following documents include information on AAIP streams, categories and initiatives that are now closed.
This information is intended to be a reference only for individuals who applied to the AAIP under these AAIP streams, categories or initiatives.
No further applications will be accepted for closed AAIP streams, categories and initiatives.
Expired streams
Streams, categories and initiatives that expired in 2018.
Employer-driven Stream
Reference information for Skilled Worker Category – Applications for this category were accepted and postmarked on or before June 14, 2018
Reference information for International Graduate Category – Applications for this category were accepted and postmarked on or before June 14, 2018
Reference information for Semi-skilled Worker Category – Applications for this category were accepted and postmarked on or before June 14, 2018
Reference Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) for the Skilled Worker Category, International Graduate Category and Semi-skilled Worker Category – Related to the Skilled Worker Category, International Graduate Category, and Semi-skilled Worker Category
Strategic Recruitment Stream
Reference information for Compulsory and Optional Trades Category, Engineering Occupations Category, and Post-Graduate Worker Category – Applications for this category were accepted and postmarked on or before June 14, 2018
Reference FAQs for Compulsory and Optional Trades Category, Engineering Occupations Category, and Post-Graduate Worker Category  – Related to the Compulsory and Optional Trades Category, Engineering occupations Category, and Post-Graduate Worker Category
Contact
Connect with AAIP if you have questions about the program:Use the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
Previous
Processing information
Next
Job offer and employer requirements
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta