Farm Stream – How to apply | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Farm Stream
How to apply
Part of
Farm Stream
Farm Stream – How to apply
Steps for applying for to be nominated for this immigration stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Farm Stream
Eligibility
How to apply
After you are nominated
To ensure fair access to the program and maintain processing times, review the document checklist and include all required documents. Failure to include documents will impact processing times while AAIP clarifies your information.
Read important program and fee updates to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) and its 8 intake streams.
Before you apply
You may only have one Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) application in process at any time.
How to withdraw an application in process
If you decide to request the withdrawal of an application, submit your request using the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
The AAIP must confirm that your application has been withdrawn before you can submit a new application. The AAIP will send you an email advising when your application has been withdrawn.
If an application is withdrawn, the application fee will not be refunded.
Application steps
Step 1. Read the terms and conditions
AAIP Terms and Conditions
The availability of AAIP streams, categories, pathways and pilots is dependent upon application volumes and labour market needs. The AAIP reserves the right to close application intake for any AAIP stream, category, pathway or pilot at any time, without prior notice. Further, the AAIP may decline to consider applications to closed or suspended streams, categories, pathways or pilots, regardless of when the applications were submitted. The criteria for the AAIP are routinely evaluated and may be subject to change at any time and without notice. Changes to the AAIP, including notice of suspension or closure of its streams and categories and criteria changes, are available at AAIP – Updates.
The AAIP is not obligated to assess/process any applications submitted. Applications to the AAIP are treated as an expression of interest, and as such, will be processed according to quality of the application (completeness, eligibility), labour market information, occupational supply and demand forecasting, AAIP application volumes, and/or any other factors at the AAIP’s discretion. By applying to the AAIP, you acknowledge and agree that your application may not be processed in the order received, or at all. Further, the decision to assess / process any particular application, and the outcome of any such assessment/processing, is at the AAIP’s sole discretion.
Program criteria are eligibility minimums, and meeting program criteria does not guarantee that a candidate’s application will be assessed, processed, or granted. The AAIP may choose to assess applications with the most current criteria irrespective of the date of submission of an application.
Candidates must have a strong likelihood of becoming economically established in Alberta. The AAIP reserves the right to decline applications if the AAIP is of the opinion that the candidate may not economically establish in Alberta.
Step 2. Review the eligibility criteria
Review the eligibility criteria for the Farm Stream and the AAIP Terms and Conditions (see Step 1 above) before submitting an application.
The AAIP does not guarantee that all complete application received will be assessed, or that all candidates who meet the eligibility criteria will be issued a nomination. Review the AAIP Terms and Conditions for complete information (see Step 1 above). Submission of an application or nomination by the AAIP does not guarantee you will be issued a permanent resident visa.
Before you consider applying to this stream, you are strongly encouraged to review the following AAIP Business Plan (Guidelines) to assist you with preparing your business plan.
Step 3. Download the checklist and complete the forms
Fillable PDF forms may not open properly on some mobile devices and web browsers. See the step-by-step guide or contact PDF form technical support.
Download and use the AAIP Farm Stream Document Checklist to complete your application. The checklist lists all the forms required for your application.
You must complete the following original forms with original signatures:
Farm Stream Application
You must complete and provide copies of the following Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) forms:
IMM 0008 Generic Application Form for Canada
IMM 0008 Schedule 4: Economic Classes: Provincial Nominees
IMM 0008 Schedule 4A: Economic Classes: Business Nominees
IMM 0008DEP Additional Dependents/Declaration Form
Complete this form only if you have more than 5 dependents
The following IRCC forms must be completed by you, your spouse/common-law partner and any dependents over the age of 18:
IMM 5669 Schedule A: Background/Declaration
IMM 5406 Additional Family Information
IMM 5476 Use of a Representative (if applicable)
For help in filling out IRCC forms, read the IRCC Guide for Provincial Nominees.
Step 4. Pay the application fee
All Farm Stream applications paid for on or after April 1, 2024, are subject to a fee of $3,500.
Email [email protected] for instructions on how to pay application processing fee.
Applications paid for before April 1, 2024, are subject to a fee of $500.
Fee conditions
The AAIP application fee is non-refundable once an application has been submitted. Refund requests for application fees will not be considered. The application fee covers the cost of processing your application and is required whether a nomination certificate is issued or not. There is no guarantee you will be issued a nomination certificate.
You may only have one AAIP entrepreneur application in process at any time. Each AAIP application requires a separate application fee and will not be refunded.
Online payment
Follow the instructions provided by the [email protected] to submit payment. Once payment is made, you will receive an email with your fee payment receipt.
You must include a copy of your fee payment receipt in your application. If you do not, you will have 10 business days to provide proof of payment. If proof of payment is not received in 10 business days, your application will be declined.
For any online fee payment issues, contact the eServices.
Step 5. Mail your application to the AAIP
Ensure your application includes your fee payment document.
Keep a copy of your application for your records.
Send your original complete application package, including your fee payment receipt, by registered mail or courier to:
Farm StreamAlberta Advantage Immigration Programc/o Service Alberta and Red Tape Reduction MailroomCommerce Place, 10155 102 StreetEdmonton, Alberta  T5J 1S6Canada
Applications by email or fax are not accepted.
After you apply
Notification of application
Emails from the AAIP will always come from an @gov.ab.ca account. The Alberta government does not use email accounts such as Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, etc. If you receive a suspicious email, contact your local police and report the incident to the AAIP using the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
You will receive an email from the AAIP confirming that your file has been received. This will include your AAIP file number.
If you used an immigration representative to submit your application, your file number will be emailed to you and a copy will be sent to your representative.
You can also track the delivery of your application if you sent it by mail or courier.
Update your information
Keep your application information up to date while you wait for your application to be assessed.
If you need to make changes or updates to your application after it is submitted but before you are contacted by a program officer with the AAIP, you must submit your request detailing the changes using the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
You must update the AAIP if you wish to:
correct or update information or documents in your application
provide required updates on your contact information (address, email address or phone number) or changes to your family status
update your use of a representative
request your application be withdrawn
For requests to change information or update documents in your application, send an email with your file number advising of the change that is needed, and attach relevant documents.
Forms to notify the AAIP of updates
Change of Contact and Address Information
Request to Add or Remove Family Member(s)
A signed Use of Representative form must be provided to change your third-party representative for your AINP application
You will receive an automated email response indicating your email was received. You must keep track of the requests you send to the AAIP. The AAIP will update your paper application.
Application assessment
Only complete applications are accepted for assessment. If your application is incomplete, it will be declined and you will need to submit a new one and pay the required application fees.
The AAIP program officer will evaluate your application using the Farm Stream Eligibility Criteria. The AAIP will forward your business plan to Alberta Agriculture and Irrigation for review. Alberta Agriculture and Irrigation will determine if the proposed business plan is feasible and viable, and meets the needs of Alberta’s agriculture industry. They will then send feedback on your proposed plan to the AAIP. The program officer with the AAIP will contact you if they need more information.
If more information is needed
A program officer with the AAIP will contact you by email or phone if information is needed to assess your application. You must submit this information in the format requested by the program officer to their government email address. The only other information you should send to your assigned program officer is documents showing changes to your contact information, employment, work permit status or family situation.
If the program officer requires further clarification, the AAIP may request an interview with you. The interview may be conducted through web-based video conferencing. During the interview, you must be able to respond to the questions as well as demonstrate how your proposed business plan meets the Farm Stream requirements.
Decision on your application
Approved applications
If your application is approved, you will become a Provincial Nominee and get a nomination package by email. Make sure you read all documents in the package.
The information in the package will tell you and your dependants how to apply for permanent residence to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC).
Learn more about what to do after you are nominated.
Declined applications
If your AAIP application is declined, you will be notified by email. If you used an immigration representative to submit your application, the email will be sent to you and copied to your representative.
Request for reconsideration
If your application is declined, read the reasons for decline. If you can demonstrate an error was made in assessing the file, you may be eligible to submit a request for reconsideration.
Note: All requests for reconsideration paid for on or after April 1, 2024, are subject to a service fee of $250. Requests paid before April 1, 2024, are subject to a $100 fee. Information on how to pay the fee is provided below.
You may only submit one request for reconsideration per application.
Requests will not be processed until full payment is received.
Eligibility
You may submit a request for reconsideration on the decision of your AAIP application only if you meet the following criteria.
A request for reconsideration must:
be directly related to the reason(s) stated in the decision letter
demonstrate that an error was made in applying program criteria to the application
be submitted by:
the applicant named on the decision letter
a representative of the applicant
be submitted within 30 calendar days of the date the decision letter was issued
A request for reconsideration cannot be used:
to ask for an exemption or exception to program criteria
as an opportunity to submit new evidence or re-state the evidence submitted in the application
if you are unsatisfied with the final decision or a component of the final decision
to request Humanitarian and Compassionate consideration
Submit a request for reconsideration
Step 1. Complete the form
Download and fill out the Request for Reconsideration form.
Step 2. Pay the fee
All requests for reconsideration paid for on or after April 1, 2024, are subject to a service fee of $250. Requests paid for before April 1, 2024, are subject to a $100 fee.
Fee conditions
The AAIP request for reconsideration fee will automatically be refunded by the AAIP only if the original decision on your application is overturned. Other refunds for requests for reconsideration fees will not be considered.
Online Payment
Email [email protected] for instructions on how to pay the request for reconsideration processing fee. Once fees are paid, you will receive an email with your fee payment receipt.
Make a copy of your fee payment receipt.
For any online fee payment issues, contact the eServices.
Step 3. Submit your request
Email your completed Request for Reconsideration form, with supporting documents and a copy of your fee payment receipt to the program officer who issued your nomination.
If you do not include a copy of your fee payment receipt with your request, you will have 10 business days to provide proof of payment. If proof of payment is not received in 10 business days, your request will be cancelled.
After you submit a request for reconsideration
Note: You will be notified by email once a decision has been rendered on your request for reconsideration.
The form will be reviewed and if the request meets the conditions required, a program officer with the AAIP who was not involved in the original decision will conduct a review of the decision on your application.
There is no guarantee that a request for reconsideration will result in your application being re-assessed.
If you do not meet the conditions listed above to request reconsideration, you may wish to review the AAIP web page for information and updates to AAIP criteria, to determine if you meet the eligibility criteria to re-apply.
Forms and documents
Farm Stream application
Change of Contact and Address Information form
Farm Stream Document Checklist
Request for Reconsideration form - for paper applications only
Request to Add or Remove Family Member(s)
Use of Representative form
Contact
Connect with the program if you have questions:Email: [email protected]
Previous
Eligibility
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta