Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream – How to apply | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream
How to apply
Part of
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream – How to apply
Process and steps to apply for nomination under the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream
Eligibility
How to apply
After you are nominated
To ensure fair access to the program and maintain processing times, review the document checklist and include all required documents. Failure to include documents will impact processing times while AAIP clarifies your information.
Read important program and fee updates to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) and its 8 intake streams.
Regular system updates
System maintenance for the AAIP portal occurs Fridays from 11 pm to Sundays at 7 pm. If you experience technical issues during these times, try again later. We apologize for any inconvenience.
Before you apply
You may only have one Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) application in process at any time.
How to withdraw an application in process
If you choose to request the withdrawal of an application, you must submit a request to the  AAIP. The AAIP must confirm that your application has been withdrawn before a new application can be submitted in the AAIP portal.
The Business Application fee for the withdrawn Business Application will not be refunded.
Note: Candidates must submit their request to withdraw a Business Application using the AAIP portal.
Complete the online request
Log into the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program portal
On the AAIP portal main page, click on 'Create New Request'.
Find the AAIP Business Application number for the Business Application that you want to withdraw.
Once you click on the Business Application number, you will be directed to a page with detailed information. You can only see request options that are available to you for this Business Application. If you are eligible to withdraw the Business Application, a blue 'Withdraw Application' button will be available above the Business Application number.
Click on the blue 'Withdraw Application' button.
Next, read the Protection of Privacy Act (POPA) clause and other important information about completing a request. Check off the box and click on 'Continue'. A draft is automatically saved once you click on the 'Continue' button. If you experience any technical issues or leave the request section while creating the request, you will need to go to the 'Check Existing Requests' page to retrieve the draft request to continue.
Read the information provided on submitting a withdrawal. Once a Business Application is withdrawn it cannot be re-activated. Enter your reason for requesting the withdrawal of the Business Application, and click on 'Submit Request' button.
AAIP will review your request and notify you by email after the review is completed.
Application steps
There are 7 steps in the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream application process.
Step 1. Read the terms and conditions
AAIP terms and conditions
The availability of AAIP streams, categories, pathways and pilots is dependent upon application volume needs. The AAIP reserves the right to close application intake for any AAIP stream, category, pathway or pilot at any time, without prior notice. Further, the AAIP may decline to consider applications to closed or suspended streams, categories, pathways or pilots, regardless of when the applications were submitted. The criteria for the AAIP are routinely evaluated and may be subject to change at any time and without notice. Changes to the AAIP, including notice of suspension or closure of its streams and categories and criteria changes, are available at AAIP Updates.
The AAIP is not obligated to assess or process any applications submitted. Applications to the AAIP are treated as an expression of interest, and as such, will be processed according to quality of the application (completeness and eligibility), occupational supply and demand forecasting, AAIP application volumes, and/or any other factors at the AAIP’s discretion. By applying to the AAIP, you acknowledge and agree that your application may not be processed in the order received, or at all. Further, the decision to assess/process any particular application, and the outcome of any such assessment/processing, is at the AAIP’s sole discretion.
Program criteria are eligibility minimums, and meeting program criteria does not guarantee that a candidate’s application will be assessed, processed, or granted. The AAIP may choose to assess applications with the most current criteria irrespective of the date of submission of an application.
Candidates must have a strong likelihood of becoming economically established in Alberta and the AAIP reserves the right to decline applications if the AAIP is of the opinion that the candidate may not economically establish in Alberta.
Step 2. Review the eligibility criteria
Review the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream eligibility criteria and the AAIP Terms and Conditions (Step 1 above) before submitting an Expression of Interest (EOI).
The AAIP does not guarantee that all complete Business Applications received will be assessed, or that all candidates who meet the eligibility criteria will be issued a nomination. Review the AAIP Terms and Conditions for complete information (see Step 1 above). Additionally, review the economic establishment information on the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Eligibility page to understand the factors AAIP may consider when assessing this requirement.
Submission of a Business Application or nomination by the AAIP does not guarantee you will be issued a permanent resident visa.
Step 3. Submit an Expression of Interest
If you meet Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream criteria, you can submit your Expression of Interest (EOI) by accessing the AAIP Portal. The AAIP will review and score your EOI submission. Highest-ranking candidates will be invited to submit a Business Application.
For more information on the criteria used to assess EOIs, see the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Eligibility page.
The Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Business Application form is not available online. Only candidates who receive an invitation to submit a Business Application will be able to access the AAIP Portal to start the Business Application process.
Using the AAIP online portal
The AAIP uses an online system to submit EOI and Business Applications. You will need:
valid email address
access to a computer
ability to scan and upload the required documents to the AAIP portal
AAIP online portal
Before entering your application information in the portal, read AAIP Portal Helpful Hints for tips on filling out the online application.
The AAIP portal is for candidates only. You are responsible for your AAIP online portal account. Portal access is not available for third-party representatives and family members.
You must have a basic Alberta.ca Account access the portal. An Alberta.ca Account is a free online identity for accessing Government of Alberta services online. Instructions on how to create an Alberta.ca Account are in the portal and on the Alberta.ca Account website. You may also use an existing basic or verified Alberta.ca Account.
The email address used to set up your Alberta.ca Account is the email address that the AAIP will use to correspond with you. If you need to change your email address for corresponding with the AAIP, you must update your Alberta.ca Account.
You should not share your Alberta.ca Account with others, including family members and third-party representatives, as your information or documents could be modified without your knowledge or consent.
You are responsible for the information provided to the AAIP for your application. Incorrect or fraudulent information could result in your application being declined, and you could be banned from applying to the AAIP for a period of time.
Submit an EOI
Foreign graduates can submit an EOI for the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream through the AAIP Portal. See the AAIP Business Plan (Guidelines) for what to include in your business plan when submitting your EOI to the AAIP.
Once you start your EOI in the AAIP Portal, you will have 120 days to complete and submit the required documents. After 120 days, your draft EOI will be purged. You can submit a new EOI if you choose.
You must ensure your EOI is up to date at the time of submission, and that all your information is complete, true and correct.
Once your EOI is completed, you can submit it to the AAIP by clicking the Submit button in the AAIP portal. An EOI number will be provided to you in the portal and will also be listed on the MyEOI page.
You must pay the EOI fee before your EOI is accepted for processing by the AAIP.
Pay the fee
There is a fee for submitting an EOI. A fee of $200 applies to all EOIs. Each submitted EOI requires a separate application fee.
Fee conditions
Refund requests for EOI fees will not be considered The AAIP EOI fee is non-refundable once an EOI has been submitted to the AAIP. Refund requests for EOIs will not be considered. The EOI fee covers the cost of processing your EOI. There is no guarantee that you will be invited to submit a business application based on your EOI. The fee will not be refunded for any reason.
How to pay your fee
Instructions on how to pay your fee are available in the portal. For any online fee payment issues, contact eServices.
You will need to pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your complete application in the portal. The $200 fee must be paid online using a single credit or debit card.
If you do not pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your EOI, your EOI will be cancelled. Cancelled EOIs cannot be reinstated and a new EOI must be created and submitted.
Check the EOI status on the MyEOI page to confirm if your EOI fee has been paid.
If the EOI Status is 'Payment Pending' on the MyEOI page, your EOI has not been accepted for processing by the AAIP and your fee has not been paid.
If the EOI status on the MyEOI page is 'Pending Review by the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program', your EOI has been accepted for processing by the AAIP. You will get an email with your fee payment receipt.
You must ensure that your EOI’s status is 'Pending Review by the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program’ or it will not be reviewed by the AAIP.
Note: once your EOI is submitted, you will not be able to update it until the AAIP has reviewed and scored it, and the status is 'Eligible'. If your EOI status is 'Not Eligible' then you will not be able to update it and must submit a new EOI if you choose. The AAIP will score your EOI submission.
EOI pool
EOIs are placed in the pool of qualified candidates for a period of 12 months from the date of their original submission. If your EOI is not selected in this 12-month period, it will be cancelled and you will have to submit a new EOI if you choose.
While your EOI is in the pool of qualified candidates, you can update or cancel your submission by accessing the AAIP Portal. By updating or cancelling your submission, you will no longer be in the pool of qualified candidates. If you choose to resubmit, your new EOI will have a new submission date and it will be assessed against the program criteria at that time.
Candidate’s information will be assessed based on Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Points Grid and Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream mandatory minimum grid. Candidates with the highest-ranking points will be contacted directly by the AAIP and invited to submit a Business Application. Only candidates who are asked to submit a Business Application to the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream will be considered.
An EOI is not an application. There is no guarantee that if you meet the selection requirements you will receive a letter of invitation or be asked to submit a Business Application. Invitations to submit Business Applications are affected by the volume of potential candidates meeting these requirements, the type (occupation or sector) of submissions in AAIP processing queues, and the number of available nominations.
Required documents
Your EOI will include the following documents or forms:
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Business Plan
Pitch Deck
Letter of Recommendation from a Designated Agency
Net Worth Worksheet
Use of Representative form – if applicable
Spouse, Common-Law Partners and Dependants Authorization form
Step 4. Submit the Business Application package
If you receive a request to submit a Business Application, you can submit your Business Application online using the AAIP Portal. A draft of the Business Application will be created in the AAIP portal with the information you provided during your EOI. Make sure you update this information and upload all the required forms and supporting documents in the AAIP Portal and pay the $3,500 non-refundable fee.
A complete Business Application includes all of the required documents listed on the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Business Application Document Checklist. If any documents are missing, your application may be declined. A complete Business Application must be submitted within 90 days of receiving the email from the AAIP requesting you to submit a Business Application.
AAIP approved designated agency and Qualified Service Provider
The following reports must be submitted with your Business Application:
Business Plan Evaluation Report
Qualified Service Provider Report
Business plan evaluation report
Your business plan must be evaluated through a business plan evaluation report completed by an AAIP approved Designated Agency. Contact the Designated Agency for Business Plan Evaluation Report as soon as you receive the request to submit a Business Application from the AAIP.
Qualified Service Provider Report
You may be required to have your net worth and business investment assessed by the Qualified Service Provider. Refer to your request to submit Business Application email, to determine if the AAIP requires you to have your net worth and business investment assessed by the Qualified Service Provider.
Contact the Qualified Service Provider for a Qualified Service Provider Report as soon as your receive the request to submit a Business Application from the AAIP. The AAIP will only accept a Qualified Service Provider Report from one of the following Qualified Service Providers:
Grant Thornton LLP1701 Scotia Place 210060 Jasper Avenue NWEdmonton, Alberta  T5J 3R8Phone: 780-422-7114Fax: 780-426-3208Email: [email protected]
KPMG LLP3100, 2005 5 Avenue SWCalgary, Alberta  T2P 4B9Phone: 416-777-3887Fax: 403-691-8008Email: [email protected]
MNP LLPSuite 1600, MNP Tower10235 101 Street NWEdmonton, Alberta  T5J 3G1Phone: 778-374-2102Fax: 403-269-8450Email: [email protected]
Only candidates who receive a request to submit a Business Application will be able to access the AAIP Portal to start Business Application process. A request to submit a Business Application will be sent by email. After logging into the AAIP portal, click on ‘Check Existing Applications'. A draft Business Application is automatically created for you. Review and update the Business Application and provide all additional required documents. Your Business Application must be current and complete.
If you do not submit your Business Application within the specified deadline, your draft will be cancelled in the AAIP portal. If you are still interested in applying to the AAIP, you will have to submit a new EOI under the relevant criteria in place at the time of submission. EOIs that are cancelled due to failure to submit a Business Application by the deadline are not eligible for a Request for Reconsideration.
The AAIP will not accept changes to an EOI submitted after the request to submit a Business Application has been sent. You may only submit a Business Application if you can demonstrate you meet criteria. You will be assessed against the criteria in place at the time your Business Application is received.
Note: When the AAIP selects candidates, it expects that information contained in the AAIP Portal is accurate. The information and documents you identified in the AAIP Portal must be provided to the AAIP at the time your Business Application is submitted. Documents and information provided in the Business Application must support the information provided in your EOI in the AAIP Portal. If there are discrepancies between the information provided in the EOI and the Business Application, your submission may be declined.
Application fee
Fee conditions
A $3,500 non-refundable fee applies to all online Business Applications.
The Business Application fee is non-refundable once a Business Application has been submitted to the AAIP. The Business Application fee covers the cost of processing your Business Application and is required whether your Business Application is approved or not. There is no guarantee you will be issued a nomination certificate.
Note: Refund requests for Business Application fees will not be considered. Each Business Application requires a separate Business Application fee and the fee will not be refunded.
Paying the Business Application fee
Instructions on how to pay your fee are available in the AAIP portal. For any online fee payment issues, contact eServices.
You will need to pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your Business Application in the AAIP portal.
The $3,500 fee must be paid online using a single credit or debit card.
If you do not pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your Business Application, your Business Application will be cancelled. Cancelled Business Applications cannot be reinstated. Your Business Application is linked to your EOI. If the Business Application is cancelled, you must submit a new EOI for consideration and selection.
Confirmation of Business Application receipt and payment
Check the status of your Business Application on the MyApplications page of the AAIP portal to confirm your Business Application fee has been paid:
Your Business Application has not been accepted for processing by the AAIP and your fee has not been paid if the ‘Pay Fees’ button shows in the portal and the status of your Business Application is ‘Payment Pending’ on the MyApplications page.
Your Business Application has been accepted for processing by the AAIP if the ‘Pay Fees’ button is not showing in the portal and the status of your Business Application on the MyApplications page in the portal is ‘Submitted’. You will get an email with your fee payment receipt.
After you apply
Notification of Business Application
Emails from the AAIP will always come from a Government of Alberta account (@gov.ab.ca). The Alberta government does not use email accounts such as Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo, etc. If you receive a suspicious email, contact your local police and report the incident to the AAIP using the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
Once you submit a complete Business Application, the AAIP Portal will automatically generate a file number. If any documents are missing, your Business Application will be declined.
If you use an immigration representative to submit your Business Application, your notification email will be sent to you and copied to your representative.
Update your information
Keep your Business Application information up to date while you wait for it to be completely assessed by an AAIP program officer.
You must update the AAIP to:
correct or update information or documents in your Business Application
provide required updates on your contact information – address, email address or phone number – or changes to your family status
provide any changes to your immigration status including renewed work permits, study permits or visitor records
update your use of a representative
request your Business Application be withdrawn
If you are requesting to withdraw your Business Application, updating your contact information (excluding email address), updating your family information or changing your representative, you must use the AAIP portal.
If you need to change your email address for corresponding with the AAIP, you must update your Alberta.ca Account.
For all other updates, you must submit the updated information or change request through the Opportunity Alberta contact form, along with your AAIP Business Application number. You must advise of the update or change that is required and attach the relevant documents. Ensure you keep track of the requests you email to the AAIP. The AAIP will update its internal system with changes.
Forms to notify the AAIP of updates
A signed Use of Representative form must be provided to change your third-party representative for your AAIP application
Withdrawing an application or updating your contact information (excluding email address), family information, employment information and representative
Complete the online request
Log into the AAIP portal
On the AAIP portal main page, click on 'Create New Request'.
Find the AAIP Business Application number for the Business Application for which you want to make a request.
Once you click on the Business Application number, you will be directed to a page with detailed information. You can only see request options that are available to you for this Business Application.
Withdrawal: If you are eligible to withdraw the Business Application, a blue 'Withdraw Application' button will be available above the Business Application number.
Update contact information: You can update contact information for all active or nominated Business Applications.
Update family information: You can update spouse/common-law partner and dependent information for all active and nominated Business Applications.
Request change of representative: You can update your representative for all Business Applications, including withdrawn and declined Business Applications.
Click on the blue button for the type of request you want to submit.
Next, read the POPA clause and other important information about completing a request. Check off the box and click on 'Continue'. A draft is automatically saved once you click on the 'Continue' button. If you experience any technical issues or leave the request section while creating the request, you will need to go to the 'Check Existing Requests' page to retrieve the draft request to continue.
Read the information provided on submitting the request and follow the instructions to complete the request.
Withdrawal: Once a Business Application is withdrawn, it cannot be re-activated. Enter your reason for requesting the withdrawal of the Business Application.
Update contact information: The current contact information the AAIP has will be displayed. Only update the information that is no longer correct. Do not delete any existing information that is correct. Include only your contact information. Do not provide anyone else’s information, including that of your third party representative.
Update family information: Provide details on the spouse/common-law partner and/ or dependent you need to add or remove from the Business Application and upload supporting documents.
Request change of representative: If you are removing a representative and representing yourself, fill out the fields as directed in the portal. If you are appointing a representative or changing from one representative to another representative, read the provided AAIP Use of Representative policy and upload a signed Use of Representative form. Read the instructions in the form to determine which pages must be completed for the change to representative you are requesting.
Click on 'Submit Request' button.
The AAIP will review your request to withdraw and notify you by email after the review is completed.
We will make the changes to your contact, family, and representative information in our internal system. Changes will only be reflected in the individual requests in the Check Existing Request section in the portal. Changes to your information will not be reflected in the online Business Application.
If more information is needed
A program officer with the AAIP will contact you by email or phone if they require more information to assess your Business Application. You must submit this information in the format requested by the program officer to their government email address. The only other information you should send to your assigned program officer are documents showing changes to your contact information, employment, work permit status or family situation.
Step 5. Business Application assessment
Once the Business Application and supporting documents are received, the AAIP will assess your Business Application. There is no guarantee that all complete Business Applications will be assessed or that all candidates who meet the criteria will be issued a nomination.
A program officer with the AAIP will contact you by email or phone if additional information is needed to assess your Business Application and will tell you how to send the information.
Your Business Application will be assessed against the eligibility criteria and your EOI points will be verified. To find more information on the criteria used to assess EOIs and Business Applications, see the Eligibility section.
The AAIP may contact you for more information. If you do not respond to requests for additional information, your Business Application will be declined.
If your Business Application is approved
If the AAIP deems that you have demonstrated that you meet all Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream criteria, you will be sent a Business Performance Agreement by email for your review and signature.
Your Business Performance Agreement is a legal agreement between you and the Province of Alberta. Your Business Performance Agreement will include:
the industry sector that your business will operate within
the term length of the agreement
a list of other information relevant to your Business Application, including but not limited to:
job creation
business succession
business location
The Business Performance Agreement requirements are based upon the information you provided in your Business Application and business plan.
The AAIP does not set restrictions on the hiring of temporary residents, Canadian citizens or permanent residents for your business. However, in order to maintain eligibility under the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream and be considered for nomination, candidates must demonstrate they meet the job creation criteria identified in the Business Performance Agreement for Canadian citizens, or permanent residents, and in accordance with all terms and conditions of the Business Performance Agreement.
You must sign, scan, and email your Business Performance Agreement to the AAIP within 14 days.
Note: the AAIP will not consider any requests to change the terms of the Business Performance Agreement other than an extension request to the term of your Business Performance Agreement after it is approved and signed by you.
Once all parties have signed the Business Performance Agreement, the AAIP will provide you with a copy of the signed agreement, a Business Application Approval Letter, and a 205(a) Letter of Support. The 205(a) Letter of Support allows you to apply for a 2-year work permit to Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC). There is no cost associated with this 205(a) Letter of support. Any subsequent 205(a) request will require a $150 service fee.
Entrepreneurs who are approved under the established businesses in Alberta criteria are not required to sign a Business Performance Agreement. These entrepreneurs will be issued a nomination certificate to apply for permanent residence to IRCC.
Apply for a work permit
A work permit is the official document issued by the Government of Canada that allows a foreign national to work legally on a temporary basis in Canada. The duration of validity for the work permit may vary at the discretion of IRCC.
You are required to submit your application for a work permit to IRCC along with your 205(a) Letter of Support within 3 months of receiving this letter. This will facilitate your arrival in Alberta within 12 months of receiving your Business Application Approval Letter.
To apply for a work permit, follow the instructions on IRCC’s website.
You must first register as an employer in IRCC’s Employer Portal as the employer of your business (self-employed person). You will need to pay an employer compliance fee but you will be exempt from the Labour Market Impact Assessment (LMIA) fee.
Issuance of a 205(a) Letter of Support does not guarantee that you will receive a work permit. Only IRCC can issue a work permit.
After receiving the work permit, you can move to Alberta to establish your business. Review the information on:
preparing to come to Alberta
preparing to live in Canada
Note: The Business Application Approval Letter is not a nomination and cannot be used to apply for permanent residence. The approval letter recognizes that the AAIP approves your Business Application and proposed business outlined in the Business Performance Agreement and expects that you will reside and operate your business in Alberta. The 205(a) Letter of Support will allow you to apply for a work permit to come to Alberta to establish your business.
If your Business Application is declined
If your Business Application is declined, you will be emailed a letter outlining reasons for decision. If you used an immigration representative, the email will be copied to your representative.
If you can demonstrate an error was made in assessing your file, you may be eligible to appeal the decision by submitting a Request for Reconsideration (see below).
Step 6. Establish your business in Alberta
Upon receiving your Business Application Approval Letter and your work permit, you must:
reside in Alberta
actively own and operate an eligible business in Alberta with at least 34% ownership in an urban centre or 51% ownership in a regional area for at least 12 months
meet the conditions of the Business Performance Agreement you signed with the Government of Alberta
demonstrate that the business is operating successfully by generating product or services after one year of operation
Once the conditions of the Business Performance Agreement have been met, submit the Final Report for Nomination.
See Step 7 below.
Candidates must:
Submit an Arrival Report to the AAIP within 30 days of the date that appears as the “date issued” on your work permit issued by the Government of Canada.
Submit a Business Progress Report to the AAIP after the end of each 6-month period from the date that appears as the “date issued” on your work permit issued by the Government of Canada. If you require more time to meet the conditions of your Business Performance Agreement, you must submit a request to make Business Performance Agreement changes.
The AAIP may request evidence to confirm you are meeting the conditions of your signed Business Performance Agreement. There is no guarantee that your request for Business Performance Agreement extension will be approved.
Request to extend the term of the Business Performance Agreement
Complete the online request
Log into the AAIP portal
On the AAIP portal main page, click on 'Create New Request'.
Find the AAIP Business Application number for the Business Application for which you want to make a request.
Once you click on the Business Application number, you will be directed to a page with detailed information. You can only see request options that are available to you for this Business Application.
Request for Business Performance Agreement Change: If you are eligible to make this request, a blue “Request for Business Performance Agreement Change” button will be available above the Business Application number.
Click on the blue button to submit this request.
Next, read the POPA clause and other important information about completing a request. Check off the box and click on 'Continue'. A draft is automatically saved once you click on the 'Continue' button. If you experience any technical issues or leave the request section while creating the request, you will need to go to the 'Check Existing Requests' page to retrieve the draft request to continue.
Read the information provided on submitting the request and follow the instructions to complete the request.
Enter your reason for requesting the change to Business Performance Agreement and upload any supporting document(s).
Click on 'Submit Request' button.
Next you must pay the fee.
Pay the fee
All requests for Business Performance Agreement Changes are subject to a service fee of $150.
Fee conditions
The request for a Business Performance Agreement Changes fee is non-refundable once a request has been submitted in the AAIP portal. Refund requests for requests for Business Performance Agreement Changes will not be considered. The fee covers the cost of processing your request and is required whether Business Performance Agreement Changes are approved. There is no guarantee the AAIP will approve changes to your Business Performance Agreement.
How to pay your fee
Instructions on how to pay your fee are available in the portal. For any online fee payment issues, contact eServices.
You will need to pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your request in the portal. The $150 fee must be paid online using a single credit or debit card.
If you do not pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your request, your request will be cancelled. Cancelled requests cannot be reinstated and new request must be created and submitted.
Check the Request Status on the Check Existing Requests page to confirm if your request fee has been paid.
If the status is 'Payment Pending', your fee has not been paid.
If the status is 'Submitted', your request has been accepted for processing by the AAIP. You will receive an email with your fee payment receipt.
Once your request is submitted, the AAIP will review your request for Business Performance Agreement change and notify you by email after the review is completed.
Extending your work permit
If you need to extend your work permit to meet the conditions of the Business Performance Agreement, you must submit a Request for a 205(a) Letter of Support to the AAIP within 90 days of your work permit expiry. All requests for a 205(a) Letter of Support will be reviewed and granted on a case-by-case basis. Requests for a 205(a) letter of Support are subject to a service fee of $150.
Refer to the How to request a 205(a) Letter of Support for more information on the process and fee payment requirements.
There is no guarantee that the AAIP will issue you a 205(a) letter of support to extend your work permit. In addition, the issuance of the 205(a) Letter of Support by the AAIP does not guarantee that IRCC will extend your work permit.
Step 7. Final Report for Nomination
Once candidates satisfy the conditions of the Business Performance Agreement, they can apply to be nominated by the AAIP for permanent residency. Candidates must submit a Final Report for Nomination along with the supporting documents.
The AAIP will assess your Final Report for Nomination and will inform you of the decision. You will be assessed based upon your compliance with your Business Performance Agreement and any other criteria in place at the time you started your Business Application process.
If your Final Report for Nomination is approved
If your Final Report for Nomination is approved, you will receive an email copy of the nomination certificate. You will need to apply for permanent residence to IRCC.
If approved for nomination, the AAIP will:
notify Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) of your nomination
send a nomination letter to you explaining how to submit your permanent residency application to the IRCC Centralized Intake Office (CIO). You must apply for permanent residence to IRCC.
You must continue to meet the conditions of your Business Performance Agreement during the AAIP nomination assessment. If you no longer meet the conditions of your Business Performance Agreement, you will not be issued a nomination certificate and you will be declined.
You may use your nomination to renew your work permit.
A one-time nomination extension may be issued under the Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream if all nomination extension requirements are met. Request for a nomination extension is subject to a service fee of $150.
IRCC will contact you for further clarification or additional documents for your Application for Permanent Residence. If IRCC approves your application, you and your dependents will receive a Canadian permanent resident visa from IRCC.
Learn more about what to do after you are nominated.
If your Final Report for Nomination is declined
If your Final Report for Nomination is declined, you will be emailed a decision letter providing the reasons your nomination was declined. If you used an immigration representative, the email will be copied to your representative.
If you can demonstrate an error was made in assessing your file, you may be eligible to appeal the decision by submitting a request for reconsideration, see below.
Request for reconsideration
All requests for reconsideration are subject to a service fee of $250. Information on how to pay the fee is provided below.
You may only submit one request for reconsideration for each decline decision that you receive from the AAIP on your Business Application.
Requests will not be processed until full payment is received.
Eligibility for reconsideration
You may submit a request for reconsideration on the decision of your AAIP Business Application or Final Report for Nomination if you meet the following criteria.
A request for reconsideration must:
be directly related to the reasons stated in the decision letter
demonstrate that an error was made in applying program criteria to the Business Application or Final Report for Nomination
be submitted by:
the candidate named on the decision letter, or
a representative of the candidate
be submitted within 30 calendar days of the date the decision letter was issued
A request for reconsideration cannot be used:
to ask for an exemption or exception to program criteria
as an opportunity to submit new evidence or re-state the evidence submitted in the Business Application or Final Report for Nomination
if you are unsatisfied with the final decision or a component of the final decision
to request humanitarian and compassionate consideration
How to submit a request for reconsideration
Step 1. Log into the AAIP portal
AAIP online portal
On the AAIP portal main page, click on 'Create New Request'.
Find the AAIP Business Application number that you want to submit a request for reconsideration. Only Business Applications with a status of 'Declined' or 'Withdrawn' are eligible for reconsideration.
Once you click on the application number, you will be directed to a page with detailed information. You can only see request options that are available to you for this Business Application. If you are eligible to submit a request for reconsideration for the Business Application, a blue 'Request for Reconsideration' button will be available above the Business Application number.
Click on the blue 'Request for Reconsideration' button.
Next, read the POPA clause and other important information about completing a request. Check off the box and click on Continue. A draft is automatically saved once you click on the ‘Continue’ button. If you experience any technical issues or leave the request section while creating the request, you will need to go the ’Check Existing Requests’ page to retrieve the draft request to continue.
Complete the online declaration and upload supporting document(s), if applicable, and click on 'Submit Request' button.
Next, you must pay the fee.
Step 2. Pay the fee
All requests for reconsideration are subject to a service fee of $250.
Fee conditions
The AAIP request for reconsideration fee will automatically be refunded by the AAIP only if the original decision on your Business Application is overturned. Other refunds for requests for reconsideration fees will not be considered.
Online payment
Instructions on how to pay your fee are available in the portal. For any online fee payment issues, contact eServices.
You will need to pay your fee in full within 24 hours of submitting your request in the portal. If you do not pay your fee within 24 hours of submitting your request, your request will be cancelled. Cancelled requests cannot be reinstated and a new request must be created and submitted.
Check the Request Status on the Check Existing Requests page to confirm if your request fee has been paid. Your fee has not been paid if the status is 'Payment Pending.' Your request has been accepted for processing by the AAIP if the status is 'Submitted'. You will receive an email with your fee payment receipt.
After you submit a request for reconsideration
You can check the online portal for the status of your request.
The information you submitted will be reviewed and if the request meets the conditions required, a program officer with AAIP who was not involved in the original decision will conduct a review of the decision on your Business Application.
There is no guarantee that a request for reconsideration will result in your Business Application being re-assessed.
Note: You will be notified by email once a decision has been rendered on your request for reconsideration.
If you do not qualify to request reconsideration
If you do not meet the conditions listed above to request reconsideration, you may wish to review the AAIP website for information and updates to AAIP criteria, to determine if you meet the eligibility criteria to re-apply.
Fillable PDF forms may not open properly on some mobile devices and web browsers. See the step-by-step guide or contact PDF form technical support.
Forms and documents
AAIP Business Plan (Guidelines)
AAIP Portal Helpful Hints
Arrival Report
Spouse, Common-Law Partners and Dependants Authorization form
Business Progress Report
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream Business Application Document Checklist
Final Report for Nomination
Net Worth Worksheet
Use of Representative form
Contact
Connect with the program if you have questions:Email: [email protected]
Previous
Eligibility
Next
After you are nominated
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta