Express Entry: Federal Skilled Trades Program - Canada.ca
Skip to main content
Skip to "About government"
Language selection
Français
fr
/
Gouvernement du Canada
Search
Search IRCC
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Manage life events
Sign in
IRCC sign inIRCC sign in
You are here:
Canada.ca
Immigration and citizenship
Live in Canada
Immigrate through Express Entry
Express Entry: Who can apply
Express Entry
Who can apply
Canadian Experience Class
Federal Skilled Worker Program
Federal Skilled Trades Program
Check your score
Get your documents ready
Create your profile
Rounds of invitations
Apply for permanent residence
After you apply
If we approve your application
Federal Skilled Trades Program
The Federal Skilled Trades Program is for skilled workers who want to become permanent residents based on being qualified in a skilled trade.
On this page
Skilled trade sectors
Skilled trades work experience
Job offer or certificate of qualification
Language ability
Education
Proof of funds
Admissibility
Where you can live in Canada
Skilled trade sectors
Skilled trades need specialized knowledge and hands-on work. You’ll need an apprenticeship for most trades.
Skilled tradespeople may work in sectors such as:
construction
transportation
manufacturing and industrial
natural resources and agriculture
Skilled trades work experience
First, find out the National Occupational Classification (NOC) for your job. Then check if it meets the requirements for skilled work experience.
Find your NOC
Your skilled work experience must:
all be in the same NOC and be in 1 of these NOC groups:
Major Groups 72 (excluding Sub-Major Group 726), 73, 82, 83, 92, or 93 (excluding Sub-Major Group 932)
Minor Group 6320
Unit Group 62200
show that you performed:
the actions in the lead statement of the NOC job description, and
most of the main duties listed
meet the job requirements for that skilled trade as set out in the NOC
be paid work
You must have been paid wages or earned commission (volunteer work or unpaid internships don’t count).
have been obtained in a country where you were qualified to practice
be at least 2 years of full-time work experience (or 3,120 hours total) in a skilled trade within the 5 years before you apply
Your skilled work experience must meet all the above requirements to be eligible.
Choose the NOC that most closely aligns with your work experience. This will:
avoid processing delays
make sure you’re assessed against the correct program
Your skilled work experience meets the criteria
You may be eligible for the Federal Skilled Trades Program if you meet all other minimum requirements.
How to count your work hours
You can meet the 3,120 hour requirement in a few different ways:
full time at 1 job: up to 30 hours/week for 24 months = 2 years full time (3,120 hours)
equal amount in part-time work: for example, 15 hours/week for 48 months = 2 years full time (3,120 hours)
You can work as many part-time jobs as you need to meet this requirement.
full time at more than 1 job: 30 hours/week for 24 months at more than 1 job = 2 years full time (3,120 hours)
If you worked in more than one country
Your work experience only counts if you were qualified to practise that trade where you got your work experience.
If you were qualified in one country but worked in another country with different rules for practising your trade, you must have also met the requirements to practise there independently.
Part-time work experience
For part-time work, you can work more or less than 15 hours/week as long as it adds up to 1,560 hours. You can work more than 1 part-time job to get the hours you need to apply.
We don’t count any hours you work above 30 hours/week.
Student work experience
Work experience gained while you were studying doesn't count towards minimum requirements for the Federal Skilled Trades Program.
Job offer or certificate of qualification
You must have either:
a valid job offer of full-time employment for a total period of at least 1 year, or
a certificate of qualification in your skilled trade issued by a Canadian provincial, territorial or federal authority
Certificate of qualification
A certificate of qualification (or a qualification certificate) proves you’re qualified to work in a certain skilled trade in Canada. This means you:
passed a certification exam
meet all the requirements to practise your trade in the province or territory that issued your certificate
This certificate is issued by:
the provincial or territorial body that governs trades in their province or territory, or
a federal authority
To get a certificate, the provincial, territorial or federal authority must assess your training, trade experience and skills to decide if you’re eligible to write a certification exam.
Get assessed by the province or territory
Each province and territory has its own:
certificate of qualification requirements, and
certification process
You may:
have to go to the province or territory to be assessed for your trade
need an employer in Canada to give you experience and training
To learn more about getting assessed, visit the website of the body that governs trades for the province or territory where you want to live and work:
Alberta
British Columbia
Manitoba
New Brunswick
Newfoundland and Labrador
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ontario
Prince Edward Island
Saskatchewan
Yukon
If the province or territory where you plan to live and work doesn’t give certificates of qualification in your trade, you’ll need a valid job offer in your trade to be eligible for this program.
If your trade is federally regulated
If your trade is not regulated by a province or territory, it may be federally regulated (for example, airplane mechanics).
Find out who regulates your trade and how to get assessed through the Canadian Information Centre for International Credentials.
Language ability
You must:
take approved language tests in English or French
meet the minimum score in all 4 abilities:
writing
reading
listening
speaking
Education
There is no education requirement for the Federal Skilled Trades Program.
If you want to improve your rank in the pool
There are 2 ways you can improve your rank in the Express Entry pool:
If you went to school in Canada, you can get points for a certificate, diploma or degree from a Canadian high school or post-secondary institution.
If you have foreign education, you can get points if you have both of these:
a completed educational credential
an educational credential assessment report for immigration purposes
Proof of funds
You must show that you have enough money for you and your family to settle in Canada.
You don't need proof of funds if you:
are currently able to legally work in Canada, and
have a valid job offer from an employer in Canada
Admissibility
You must be admissible to Canada.
Some people aren’t allowed to come to Canada. There are different reasons we may not let you into Canada, such as security, criminal or medical reasons.
Where you can live in Canada
You must plan to live outside the province of Quebec. The province of Quebec selects its own skilled workers. If you plan on living in Quebec, see Quebec-selected skilled workers for more information.
You can count work experience gained while living in Quebec, as long as you can prove you don’t plan to settle there.
You’ll have to include proof and expect officers to check anything you provide.
When you fill out your profile, we’ll ask you where you plan to live in Canada.
If you’re a Provincial Nominee, you must settle in the province or territory that nominated you.
Document navigation
Next: Check your score
Page details
2026-06-22
About this site
Immigration and citizenship
Help Centre
Contact us
Check your application status
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Government of Canada Corporate
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy