Health care aide program | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Health
Supports and resources
Health professional and delivery resources
Health care aide program
Part of
Health professional and delivery resources
Health care aide program
Learn about health care aide education in Alberta, the curriculum offered and where you can study to become a health care aide.
Skip to On this page
Overview
Health care aides (HCAs) work under the direct or indirect supervision of a regulated health professional, such as a nurse, in a variety of settings including, but not limited to:
home care
assisted living facilities and lodges
long-term care and designated supportive living facilities
acute care hospitals
private agencies
individual clients
HCAs provide basic health services, assistance and support with activities of daily living for clients who have medical conditions or major functional limitations.
In Alberta, the HCA occupation is currently unregulated. To ensure consistent education of the HCA workforce in Alberta, the Alberta government developed and owns the HCA Provincial Curriculum. Licensed post-secondary institutions use this curriculum to educate people who want to be HCAs. The most recent update to the provincial curriculum was in 2019.
Regulation of HCAs
Effective February 2, 2026, HCAs will be regulated under Alberta’s Health Professions Act (HPA). The College of Licensed Practical Nurses of Alberta will become the College of Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides of Alberta. The college will be responsible for:
registering HCAs
setting practice and conduct standards
ensuring continued professional development, and
responding to complaints
To learn more about what regulation of HCAs under the HPA means for the public, HCAs, employers, and other health system partners, see the Health Care Aide (HCA) Regulation fact sheet. To learn more about how current HCAs will be transitioned to regulation, see the fact sheet on Health Care Aide (HCA) Regulation – Transferring from the Alberta HCA Directory to an HCA Register.
License agreements for post-secondary institutions
Effective October 1, 2017, the Alberta government implemented a moratorium on licensing new post-secondary institutions to offer the HCA Provincial Curriculum. The moratorium remains in effect until further notice, to allow the government sufficient time to:
evaluate the workforce supply and demand, as well as clinical placement challenges and opportunities; and
plan and allocate resources to conduct efficient license application reviews
Alberta HCA Directory
The Alberta HCA Directory acts as a database to collect information on the HCA workforce. The directory provides information about HCAs in Alberta, and has a number of resources including news, education and job boards.
All HCAs working for a publicly funded employer must maintain continued enrolment on the Alberta HCA Directory.
HCAs currently on the directory who completed the Alberta HCA Curriculum (2013), or previous versions, should update their education by successfully completing the Alberta HCA Bridging Modules on the directory before HCAs are regulated in Alberta.
Find out more on the Alberta Health Care Aide Directory or email [email protected].
When the regulation of HCAs comes into effect on February 2, 2026, the Alberta HCA Directory will be discontinued.
Competency profile
Learn more about the Health Care Aide Competency Profile – 2018.
How to become an HCA in Alberta
To become an HCA in Alberta, you have 4 pathways:
Successfully complete an HCA program in Alberta. This must be through a post-secondary institution licensed to use the 2019 provincial curriculum, and you must pass the Provincial Alberta HCA Examination to obtain an Alberta HCA certificate. Contact the licensed post-secondary institutions listed below for additional program information, including admission requirements, course length, format and tuition cost.
If you have previous education and training comparable to the Alberta HCA Program, you may obtain an Alberta HCA certificate by undergoing a Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition evaluation and passing the Provincial Alberta HCA Examination. This evaluation is available at a cost through some licensed post-secondary institutions offering the HCA program.
If you have educational experience similar to an HCA, were a health-care provider, internationally educated nurse, or are a nursing student, you may complete a Substantial Equivalence Assessment. More information about the Substantial Equivalence Assessment process is on the College of Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides of Alberta (CLHA) website: Substantially Equivalent HCAs - CLHA.
Some employers will hire HCAs and use the Provincial Competency Assessment Profile tool to assess their skills and competencies. The employer provides HCAs with appropriate education. These HCAs are considered ‘deemed competent’.
HCA program information
As of January 1, 2023, the following entry requirements must be met to be eligible for entry into a licensed HCA program:
Digital literacy
Candidates must possess knowledge of computer and technology tools to be successful in the program. Candidates must:
be able to communicate, research and understand information
know how to use computer to surf web and email
be able to critically evaluate and understand how technology can affect one’s behaviour
be able to create, produce content and effectively communicate using email, media, internet
Academic English Language Arts (ELA)
English 20-1 or 20-2 with a minimum score of 60% achieved or Canadian jurisdiction equivalent, or
English 30-1 or 30-2 with a minimum of 55% or Canadian jurisdiction equivalent, such as a Canadian High School Equivalency Diploma, General Education Development-test (GED) or Canadian Adult Education Credential (CAEC)
deemed equivalent by completion of ACCUPLACER Next-Generation (assessment placement test) reading and writing tests, with a minimum score of 237 in each category. The math test is not required.
Note: Students who have not met the ELA requirement (that is, 20-1, 20-2, 30-1, or 30-2 English level) with the minimum grade are subject to completing the ACCUPLACER Next-Generation assessment test. This includes students from out-of-province, out-of-country, or mature students that have been out of school for a significant length of time.
English Language Proficiency (ELP)
Candidates where English is a Second Language (ESL) must meet the English Language Proficiency requirement in addition to the Academic English requirement. Equivalencies are:
present a Canadian High School Equivalency Diploma (General Education Development-test (GED)), or Canadian Adult Education Credential (CAEC)
attend high school in Canada – studies must have been in English at an approved Canadian high school (grades 9 to 12) with at least 3 consecutive years of full-time academic study, or
provide evidence of attending 2 consecutive years of full-time equivalent post-secondary study in English in a subject other than an HCA program at a Canadian institution, or
complete an approved ELP test with the required Canadian Language Benchmark – a minimum CLB of 7 in each of the 4 language skills (speaking, listening, reading and writing) and not an average of 7
Approved English Language Proficiency (ELP) tests
International English Language Testing System (IELTS) Academic – 6 (no section score below 5.5)
Test of English as a Foreign Language Internet Based Testing (TOEFL iBT) – 71
Canadian English Language Proficiency Index Program (CELPIP) General – 7 (with no section score below 6)
Canadian Language Benchmarks Tests, Milestones Test (7 in each strand, not an average of 7)
Duolingo English Test (minimum score of 95)
Canadian English Language Benchmark Assessment for Nurses (CELBAN) – 7 in each area of listening, reading, writing and speaking, not an average of 7
Notes:
Test currency – results must have been obtained within 2 years of the start date of the program.
Test validity – IELTS (Academic) and TOEFL results are valid for 2 years from the day of testing. Results that expire prior to the start date of the program will not be accepted.
HCA bursaries
Read about Alberta HCA bursaries – applicable to attending any licensed post-secondary institution.
Email questions to: [email protected]Phone: 780-644-6500
Licensed institutions
Contact the post-secondary institutions listed below for additional program information including admission requirements, course length, delivery and tuition costs.
Licensed post-secondary educational institutions (Curriculum-2019)
ABM College
Academy of Learning
Alberta Business and Educational Services (ABES)
University nuhelot’įne thaiyots’į nistameyimâkanak (Blue Quills University)
Bow Valley College
Columbia College
Health Care Aide Academy
Keyano College
Lakeland College
Lethbridge College
MaKami College
Medicine Hat College
MTG Healthcare Academy
NorQuest College
Northern Lakes College
Northwestern Polytechnic
Mikai'sto (Red Crow Community College)
Red Deer Polytechnic
Robertson College
Rosewood College
Training Inc.
University of Alberta, Campus Saint-Jean
Licensed post-secondary educational institutions teaching combined ESL and HCA program
Columbia College
Bow Valley College
NorQuest College
Red Deer Polytechnic
Publications
Continuing Care Health Service Standards April 2024
Contact
For questions related to HCAs or the Alberta HCA Directory:Email: [email protected]
For questions related to the Substantial Equivalence Assessment:Email: [email protected]
For questions related to the provincial HCA exam:Email: [email protected]
Connect with the Health Workforce Strategy and Planning Branch:Email: [email protected]
Address:Primary and Preventative Health ServicesHealth Workforce Strategy and Planning BranchPO Box 1360, Station MainEdmonton, Alberta  T5J 2N3
Previous
Emergency health services provider and operator information
Next
Health standards and guidelines
Lead ministry:
Primary and Preventative Health Services
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta