Regulated health professions and regulatory colleges | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Health
Health data, research and standards
Regulated health professions and colleges
Part of
Health data, research and standards
Regulated health professions and regulatory colleges
Learn about the Health Professions Act (HPA) and the regulatory colleges that govern health professions and health professionals in Alberta.
Skip to On this page
Overview
Alberta regulates a number of health professions under the Health Professions Act (HPA).
The purpose of regulating a profession under the HPA is to help protect the public from injury or harm associated with the incompetent or unethical provision of health services. The HPA was developed to regulate health professions in a way that allows for non-exclusive, overlapping scopes of practice. No single profession has exclusive ownership of a specific skill or health service, and different professions may provide the same health services.
Governance of health professions
Under the HPA, health professions are governed by regulatory bodies called health professional regulatory colleges (regulatory colleges). These regulatory colleges are legal entities that have been delegated powers and authorities for self-governance. Regulatory colleges are not post-secondary institutions.
There are 29 regulatory colleges established under the HPA. Some colleges regulate a single profession, others regulate a number of professions.
The HPA requires that regulatory colleges carry out governance and regulatory responsibilities in a way that protects and serves the public interest. Regulatory colleges do this by establishing, maintaining and enforcing professional regulations, standards of practice and codes of ethics and setting continuing competence requirements for the regulated health professionals they govern.
Regulatory colleges are also responsible for responding to complaints about their regulated health professionals, including investigating complaints and imposing disciplinary sanctions or remedial action, where appropriate.
The role of regulatory colleges is to protect the public. Registration with a regulatory college is mandatory for health professionals who meet the registration requirements and provide the professional health services of the regulated profession. Health professionals must be registered with their respective regulatory colleges in order to use the title of the regulated health profession.
Some health professions may have a professional association. Professional associations exist as separate entities from regulatory colleges, and have a different role. The role of a professional association is to promote and represent the interest of professionals. Professional associations serve and support their members through education, advocacy, professional liability insurance and member benefits. Membership with a professional association is voluntary.
Regulatory college councils
Councils are the governing bodies of the regulatory colleges. Their role is to manage and oversee their college’s regulatory activities. Councils make professional regulations and bylaws, adopt standards of practice and codes of ethics, set registration and practice permit fees, appoint college officials, and hear reviews or appeals of registration decisions, practice permit renewal decisions and hearing decisions.
Public representation
There are numerous ways to provide public input and support accountability in the governance of health professions under the HPA. One of the key provisions to support professional accountability in the public interest is through public membership on college councils.
All college councils include public members to ensure the public is represented and Albertans’ views are taken into account. Public members have full voting status as members on a college council so the public has significant input into decisions.
The HPA requires 50% public member representation on college councils, complaint review committees and hearing tribunals. This gives Albertans a strong voice and a role in professional oversight.
Learn about the responsibilities and other details of serving on a public agency board by visiting government’s Public agencies, boards and commissions website.
Standards of practice and codes of ethics
The HPA requires that a regulatory college establish, maintain and enforce a code of ethics and standards of practice. These documents, which can be found on a regulatory college’s website, set the minimum standards of professional behaviour and ethical conduct expected of all regulated members of the regulatory college to help ensure that regulated health professionals provide services in a competent, safe and ethical manner. There is typically one document for the code of ethics, and multiple documents for various standards of practice. If a regulated health professional’s conduct does not meet the expectations referenced in these documents, the regulated health professional may be subject to professional disciplinary action.
Complaints or concerns
Having a regulatory college in place means regulated health professionals can be held accountable for care they provide that could be deemed unacceptable or outside the scope of practice of the profession. Albertans can go directly to a regulatory college and file a complaint about a regulated health professional. The regulatory college may then investigate the regulated health professional in question and determine what, if any, corrective or disciplinary action is required.
The HPA sets out the processes to be followed by regulatory colleges when handling complaints and discipline. These processes include the principles of fairness, reasonableness and due process. Unprofessional conduct includes unskilled practice and professional or ethical misconduct, among other offences.
Processes for addressing all complaints may include informal communication and attempts to resolve conflicts, alternative complaint resolution processes and disciplinary hearings.
Restricted activities
Certain health services in Alberta are identified as restricted activities due to the level of risk they pose. A comprehensive list of restricted activities may be found in part 0.1 of the HPA. Most regulated health professionals are authorized to perform one or more particular restricted activities.
Restricted activities can only be provided by those who are legally authorized to do so, thereby helping to ensure that individuals performing these activities possess the necessary education, skillset and competency to provide these health services safely.
Health professions governed under the HPA receive authorization to perform the set of restricted activities set out in the section of the Health Professions Restricted Activity Regulation (HPRAR) that applies to their profession. More than one profession may perform the same restricted activity, if authorized to do so. Some regulated health professionals require supervision to perform restricted activities.
Psychosocial intervention interpretive guide
Some activities may be restricted under certain circumstances. For example, psychosocial interventions are restricted activities only when performed with an intention to treat patients with specific disorders. The Psychosocial Interventions: An Interpretive Guide to the Restricted Activity interpretive guide is intended to help with understanding when psychosocial intervention is a restricted activity and who can perform restricted psychosocial interventions.
Regulatory colleges
Regulatory colleges have the legislated role to ensure all Alberta registered health professionals provide safe, competent and ethical care. Regulatory colleges determine entry to practice qualifications for the profession, approve education programs and issue practice permits to those who meet the legislated and regulatory requirements.
For more information on registration requirements for specific professions, visit the regulatory college’s webpage for the corresponding regulatory college listed below.
Regulated health professions authorized under the HPA – regulatory colleges and regulation
Acupuncturists – College of Acupuncturists of Alberta / Regulation
Audiologists – Alberta College of Speech-Language Pathologists and Audiologists / Regulation
Chiropractors – College of Chiropractors of Alberta / Regulation
Combined Laboratory and X-ray Technologists – Alberta College of Combined Laboratory and X-Ray Technologists / Regulation
Dental Assistants – College of Alberta Dental Assistants / Regulation
Dental Hygienists – Alberta College of Dental Hygienists / Regulation
Dental Technologists – College of Dental Technologists of Alberta / Regulation
Dentists – College of Dental Surgeons of Alberta / Regulation
Denturists – College of Alberta Denturists / Regulation
Dietitians – College of Dietitians of Alberta / Regulation
Health Care Aides - College of Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides of Alberta / Regulation
Hearing Aid Practitioners – College of Hearing Aid Practitioners of Alberta / Regulation
Licensed Practical Nurses – College of Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides of Alberta / Regulation
Medical Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technologists – Alberta College of Medical Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technologists / Regulation
Medical Laboratory Technologists – College of Medical Laboratory Technologists of Alberta / Regulation
Midwives – College of Midwives of Alberta / Regulation
Naturopaths – College of Naturopathic Doctors of Alberta / Regulation
Occupational Therapists – Alberta College of Occupational Therapists / Regulation
Opticians – College of Opticians of Alberta / Regulation
Optometrists – Alberta College of Optometrists / Regulation
Paramedics – Alberta College of Paramedics / Regulation
Pharmacists – Alberta College of Pharmacy / Regulation
Pharmacy Technicians – Alberta College of Pharmacy / Regulation
Physiotherapists – College of Physiotherapists of Alberta / Regulation
Physicians, Surgeons, Osteopaths and Physician Assistants Regulation – College of Physicians and Surgeons of Alberta / Regulation
Podiatrists – College of Podiatric Physicians of Alberta / Regulation
Psychiatric Nurses – College of Registered Psychiatric Nurses of Alberta / Regulation
Psychologists – College of Alberta Psychologists / Regulation
Registered Nurses – College of Registered Nurses of Alberta / Regulation
Respiratory Therapists – College of Respiratory Therapists of Alberta / Regulation
Social Workers – Alberta College of Social Workers / Regulation
Speech-Language Pathologists – Alberta College of Speech-Language Pathologists and Audiologists / Regulation
Diagnostic medical sonographers (DMS) to be regulated July 6, 2026
The Government of Alberta has approved legislative amendments that will bring the regulation of DMS under the Health Professions Act into effect on July 6, 2026. The Alberta College of Medical Diagnostic and Therapeutic Technologists will be responsible for regulating DMS, in addition to the medical radiation technologists and electroneurophysiology technologists it currently regulates.
To learn more about what regulation of diagnostic medical sonographers under the Health Professions Act means for the public, DMS, employers and other health system partners, see the Diagnostic Medical Sonographers (DMS) Regulation Fact Sheet.
Contact
Connect with us about regulated health professions:Email: [email protected]
Contact the relevant regulatory college, listed above, for information about a specific regulated profession, including information about registration processes and requirements.
For general comments or questions for the Government of Alberta, use the Contact government page.
Previous
Interactive health data
Next
Health Information Standards Committee
Lead ministry:
Primary and Preventative Health Services
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta