International Admissions
Skip to main content
News & Events
Broncos Athletics
Donate
Sign In
Information For
Future Students
Admitted Students
Current Students
International Admissions
Alumni Association
Giving to Olds College
Programs & Courses
Programs & Courses »
Explore Areas of Interest
Trades & Apprenticeship
Industry Training & Continuing Education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Post-Diploma Certificate
Transitional Employment Program (TEP)
Campus Alberta Central
Programs for Youth »
Dual Credit Programming
Green Certificate
Programs for Youth
Admissions
Admissions »
Explore Programs, Pathways & Admission Steps
International Admissions
Scholarships & Awards
Talk to Recruitment
Apply Now
Admitted Students
Student Funding
Office of the Registrar »
Academic Calendars
Articulation & Agreements
Career Services
Dates & Schedules
Student Forms
Student Records
Tuition, Fees & Payments
Your Voice
Work-Integrated Learning
Current Students
Convocation & Graduation
Student Life
Student Life »
Campus Housing
Dining on Campus
Campus Safety
Student Spaces
Athletics & Recreation
The Students’ Association
Student Opportunities
Teaching & Learning Centre of Innovation
Student Resources »
Accessibility Services
Health & Wellness
Library
Student Rights and Responsibilities
Learning Support
Career Services
Campus
Campus »
Campus & Facilities
Take a Virtual Tour
Botanic Gardens & Constructed Wetlands
Shop Our Campus »
Greenhouse
Retail Meat Store
Campus Store
The Studio
Print Services
Plan a Visit »
Parking at Olds College
Schedule a Tour
Maps & Directions
Book An Event at Olds College »
Weddings at Olds College
Catering Services
Stay on Campus
Smart Farm & Research
Smart Farm & Research »
Olds College Centre for Innovation
Research Articles & Stories
Research Projects
Research & Farm Teams
Areas of Focus »
Controlled Environment Agriculture
Crop Production
Environmental Stewardship
Livestock Production
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Smart Agriculture
Faculty-Led Research
Office of Research Services »
Research Partnerships
Work With Us
Impact Report
Smart Farm Newsletter
About Us
About Us »
Administration
Contact Us
Join the Team
Our Faculty
Our History
In Memoriam
Indigenous Olds College
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Reports & Publications
Governance
Policies
Access & Privacy
Giving to Olds College
Olds College in the Community
Our Schools »
School of Life Sciences
School of Trades & Skills
Werklund School of Agriculture Technology
Apply
International Admissions
International students are an important part of the Olds College community. We pride ourselves in providing programs and support systems that help all of our students be successful in their chosen path.
Olds College prepares students to contribute provincially, nationally and internationally through careers in agriculture, horticulture, environmental land management, agribusiness, and rural entrepreneurship.
Olds College is a  Designated Learning Institute. We offer programs that are eligible to be considered for the  Post-Graduation Work Permit Program. Students are encouraged to refer to the  Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada website for further details.
Information for Current International Students
Information for Prospective Students
Coming to a new school in a new country is an exciting opportunity and can come with some challenges. We  are here to assist you to adjust to your new environment and make your time at Olds College of Agriculture & Technology a fulfilling experience.
Post Graduate Work Permit (PGWP)
To check Post Graduate Work Permit (PGWP) eligibility, enter the course CIP codes from each program page into the Government of Canada's website.
English Language Proficiency Requirements
The language of instruction at Olds College is English. Applicants whose first language is not English must demonstrate that they have completed at least three years of academic study conducted entirely in English. Applicants who do not meet this requirement must demonstrate language proficiency through successful completion of an accepted English Language proficiency assessment dated within two years of application submission.
All English Language Proficiency Assessments will be verified online by an Admission Officer.
Provincial Attestation Letters
As of Jan. 22, 2024, Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) requires a provincial attestation letter (PAL) as part of the study permit application for newly admitted international students applying outside Canada. Complete details on PALs can be found on the IRCC website. Once admitted international students accept their offer and pay the tuition deposit, Olds College will request the PAL from the Province of Alberta.
Note: Current students in Canada applying to extend their study permit and students who submitted their completed study permit application prior to 8:30 a.m. ET on Jan. 22, 2024 do not require a PAL.
For more information, please visit our Student Verification Documents webpage.
Services for International Students
Buddy program for new international students
Orientation to Olds College of Agriculture & Technology and Canada
International Student Newsletter
Immigration advising
Cultural events
Canadian educational support & tutoring
Helping Students Apply to Olds College (International Agents)
Consent to Release Information
In order to release your application status information to an agent, the agent must submit a Consent to Release Information form that has been signed by the student.
International Authorized Agents
Please reach out to international@oldscollege.ca with any questions regarding agents authorized to recruit students on behalf of Olds College of Agriculture & Technology.
International Agent Positions
At this time, Olds College of Agriculture & Technology is actively looking for agents in the following regions:
Central America
South America
Philippines
China
Vietnam
Korea
Thailand
Japan
Study Permits / Temporary Visa
Ready to Apply?
Tuition Deposit & Payments
Study Permits / Temporary Visa
All International students in a program longer than six months (including Open Studies) must submit a copy of their Letter of Introduction and their Visa or ETA one month before their program starts.
Once you enter Canada, you will be provided with your study (and co-op work, if required) permit, a copy must be provided to your Admissions Officer. Students that do not provide copies of this documentation within the time frame specified may be removed from the program.
If you are denied a temporary visa/study permit by Immigration, Refugees, and Citizenship Canada you are required to submit a copy of the official denial letter in order to receive a partial refund of the $5,000 CAD tuition deposit.
International students must maintain valid immigration documents to live and study in Canada. It is solely the student’s responsibility, and not that of Olds College staff to:
Ensure your immigration and legal documents are current and maintained, this includes paying attention to processing times for study permit renewals.
Ensure that any documentation submitted for immigration purposes meets requirements and is accurate and complete.
Understand and be compliant with immigration requirements as they pertain to you. This information is subject to change, therefore, please refer to the Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Canada website.
*Olds College can not advise you, or act on your behalf, on immigration matters. *Immigration laws, regulations and rules can be found on the Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Website.
Application Process
We strongly recommend applying a minimum of 4-6 months in advance of the program start date - this allows for application (3-6 weeks) and Study Permit processing. It is important to pay close attention to the Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada website for Study Permit Processing times.
Submit an application through Apply Alberta online and pay the non-refundable application fee of $90 (CAD)
Submit all supporting documentation to admit@oldscollege.ca for a preliminary admission assessment - include your Alberta Student Number (ASN) created at the time of application. Original transcripts will be required before a final admission decision and documentation will be issued.
Not submitting all supporting documentation in a timely manner will significantly delay Olds College processing times
Refer to the International Document Requirements for information on how to submit your original documents.
International applicants must meet the specific admission requirements for their desired program.
Allow 3-6 weeks for application processing of a complete application. Your Admissions Officer will be in contact with you via e-mail with a decision. Incomplete applications will take longer to process.
While you wait, apply and obtain your temporary visa & study permit. Contact the Canadian embassy or consulate in your home country for details.
Reserve your seat in the program by paying the $5,000 (CAD) tuition deposit through Pay My Tuition by the deadline indicated in your Admission Letter.
Send proof of application for your Temporary Visa/ Electronic Travel Authorization & Study Permit to your Admission Officer by the deadline indicated in your Admission Letter.
Supporting Documentation to Submit
Certified official documents issued by the high school, college or university sent in a sealed envelope bearing the institution’s seal, stamp or signature are required.
High School and Post-Secondary transcripts
English Language Proficiency assessments
Copy of passport information page
If your documents are not in the English language, you must provide a certified English literal translation (word-for-word) with the documents at the time of submission. (We recommend Scholaro Transcript Translation)
Refer to the International Document Requirements to learn which documentation to submit. If your country isn’t listed, contact admissions@oldscollege.ca to determine what specific documents are required to be submitted.
International Documentation Assessment
Before you can receive an offer of admission, your original transcripts/diplomas/examination certificate must be submitted for evaluation. All applicants are assessed based on the completion of education at the senior secondary/high school level. Applicants who have completed education in another country must have graduated with appropriate high school documents and credentials.
The transcript assessment will be completed by the Olds College of Agriculture & Technology Admission Office
Once you have applied, a preliminary admission assessment will be completed and for the purposes of this assessment, scan the documents into one pdf file and e-mail to admissions@oldscollege.ca.
If scanned copies are difficult to read because of poor copy quality, they will not be accepted.
The Admission Officer will then request that official transcripts be sent to them by issuing institution or organization, in a sealed envelope.
If your documents are not in the English language, you must provide a certified English literal translation (word-for-word) with the documents at the time of submission.
Applicants may be required to submit verification documentation to support their application (e.g. WAEC scratch card/e-pin, Admit Card, etc.)
Once official documents have been received, and presuming that there is still space in the desired program, an Offer of Admission will be made.
Delays in receiving official documents may result in being placed on a waiting list if the program reaches capacity before official documentation is received. It is important that international applicants send their official documents when an application is submitted.
Recognition of Prior Learning
Once you are admitted into an Olds College of Agriculture & Technology program, you can request that an assessment be done on any of your previous post-secondary education to see if you might be eligible for transfer credit towards your new program. You will be required to submit:
A notarized colour copy of your post-secondary transcripts, where a signature and/or official stamp is visible
Copies of all relevant course outlines or descriptions for the courses you want assessed for transfer credit
PLEASE NOTE: All transcripts, course outlines and other supporting documentation must be in English. If your documentation is in another language, you must provide a certified English literal translation (word-for-word) along with a notarized colour copy of the original documents.
Recognition of Prior Learning
Tuition Deposit
All admitted International students are required to pay a $5,000 CAD tuition deposit to secure your seat in the program. Your admission documentation will provide your tuition deposit deadline date. Please visit Payment Methods (PayMyTuition) to submit your tuition deposit.
For more information on tuition or refunds, please visit our Tuition and Fees Payment page.
Explore Admissions
Explore Programs, Pathways & Admission Steps
International Admissions
Scholarships & Awards
Talk to Recruitment
Office of the Registrar
Admitted Students
In This Section
International Admissions
English Language Proficiency
Student Verification Documents
Coming to Canada
International Student Health Care
Need Assistance?
Our Admissions office can help navigate you through the admissions process and answer any questions you have about your program of study.
1.800.661.6537recruitment@oldscollege.ca
4500 50 St, Olds, AB T4H 1R6, Canada
1.800.661.6537
info@oldscollege.ca
Information For
Future Students
Admitted Students
Current Students
International Admissions
Alumni Association
Giving to Olds College
Resources
Campus Map
Campus Safety
Conference & Event Services
Marketing & Communications
Olds College ALERT
Employment
Policies
Give to Olds College
Instagram
XTwitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Youtube
© 1913- Olds College of Agriculture & Technology. All rights reserved.
Olds College of Agriculture & Technology is located in the traditional territories of the people of Treaty 7, which includes the Siksika, the Piikani, the Kainai, the Tsuut’ina and the Stoney Nakoda First Nations. The area is also home to Métis Nation of Alberta, District 3.
Close Search Form