Job prospects
Licensed Practical Nurse (L.P.N.) in Alberta
Explore job profile
Summary
Description
Wages
Prospects
Jobs
Requirements
Competencies
New search
Search for a new job profile
Occupation
City, province or territory
Search
Explore current and future job prospects for people working as a "licensed practical nurse (L.P.N.)" in Alberta or across Canada.
Job opportunities in Alberta
The recent trends from the past 3 years were updated on July 28, 2026. The job outlooks over the next 3 years were updated on December 10, 2025.
Prospects over the next 3 years
Good
The employment outlook will be Good for licensed practical nurses (NOC 32101) in Alberta for the 2025-2027 period.
The following factors contributed to this outlook:
Employment growth will lead to several new positions.
A moderate number of positions will become available due to retirements.
There are a small number of unemployed workers with recent experience in this occupation.
Alberta's growing population and a national shortage are contributing to demand for this occupation.
In 2025, Alberta increased total health spending to $28 billion, marking a 5.4% rise from the previous year.
Ongoing healthcare needs and retirements continue to support steady demand across the sector.
However, growth in new positions is expected to be scaled back, as budget constraints and staffing pressures affect hiring capacity.
Here are some key facts about licensed practical nurses in Alberta:
Approximately 7,800 people work in this occupation.
Licensed practical nurses mainly work in the following sectors:
Hospitals (NAICS 622): 56%
Nursing and residential care facilities (NAICS 623): 27%
Ambulatory health care services (NAICS 621): 12%
The distribution of full-time and part-time workers in this occupation is:
Full-time workers: 68% compared to 80% for all occupations
Part-time workers: 32% compared to 20% for all occupations
66% of licensed practical nurses work all year, while 34% work only part of the year, compared to 61% and 39% respectively among all occupations. Those who worked only part of the year did so for an average of 43 weeks compared to 42 weeks for all occupations.
Less than 5% of licensed practical nurses are self-employed compared to an average of 15% for all occupations.
The gender distribution of people in this occupation is:
Men: 9% compared to 53% for all occupations
Women: 91% compared to 47%    for all occupations
The educational attainment of workers in this occupation is:
no high school diploma: less than 5% compared to 10% for all occupations
high school diploma or equivalent: less than 5% compared to 28% for all occupations
apprenticeship or trades certificate or diploma: 6% compared to 13% for all occupations
college certificate or diploma or university certificate below bachelor's: 67% compared to 19% for all occupations
bachelor's degree: 19% compared to 21% for all occupations
university certificate, degree or diploma above bachelor level: less than 5% compared to 9% for all occupations
Breakdown by region
Explore job prospects in Alberta by economic region.
Legend
0 out of 5 stars
Undetermined
1 out of 5 stars
Very limited
2 out of 5 stars
Limited
3 out of 5 stars
Moderate
4 out of 5 stars
Good
5 out of 5 stars
Very good
Location
Job prospects
Athabasca–Grande Prairie–Peace River Region
Good
Banff–Jasper–Rocky Mountain House Region
Good
Calgary Region
Good
Camrose–Drumheller Region
Good
Edmonton Region
Good
Lethbridge–Medicine Hat Region
Good
Red Deer Region
Good
Wood Buffalo–Cold Lake Region
Good
Source
Labour Market Information
|
Prospects Methodology
Labour market conditions over the next 10 years
Learn more
Labour Market Information Survey
Top of page
Page details
Report a problem or mistake on this page
Date modified:
2026-08-07