Alberta Advantage Immigration Program | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
English
Français
Part of
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
AAIP application streams
Processing information
Expired streams
Job offer and employer requirements
Learning resources
Updates
AAIP answers for common questions
Reporting fraud
Introduction
The Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP) is an economic immigration program that nominates people for permanent residence in Alberta. Nominees must have skills to fill job shortages or be planning to buy or start a business in Alberta. They must also be able to provide for their families. The program is run by the governments of Alberta and Canada.
If you are nominated through the program, you may apply for permanent residence status together with your spouse or common-law partner, and dependent children.
Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) manages applications for permanent residence. The Government of Canada also makes final decisions on these applications.
AAIP updates
August 12, 2026: Clarifying eligibility information for entrepreneur streams
August 10, 2026: Additional allocations
June 17, 2026: Eligibility Explorer tool launched
May 26, 2026: Worker Expression of Interest edit function
Read all AAIP updates
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
Answers for common questions
We get lots of emails with similar questions. Read the AAIP answers for common questions.
Application streams
Streams for workers
AAIP has 4 streams for foreign workers who are living and working in Alberta, or plan to live and work here:
Tourism and Hospitality Stream
Tourism and Hospitality Stream – Qualified candidates who live and work in Alberta and have a full-time job offer to continue working with an Alberta tourism and hospitality sector employer can apply for an AAIP nomination.
Alberta Opportunity Stream
Alberta Opportunity Stream – Qualified candidates who live and work in Alberta and have a job offer from an Alberta employer can apply for an AAIP nomination.
Alberta Express Entry Stream
Alberta Express Entry Stream – Qualified candidates may be invited to apply for nomination who have profiles in the IRCC's Express Entry pool that are aligned with minimum requirements, and provincial economic, sector and occupational priorities. There are also dedicated pathways operated in this stream for health care professionals, technology workers and police occupations.
Rural Renewal Stream
Rural Renewal Stream – Communities must apply for and become designated before they can recruit and endorse qualified candidates. Temporary workers who have a job offer from an Alberta employer in a designated community, and an endorsement letter from a designated community, can then apply for an AAIP nomination.
Alberta job offer and employer requirements
Most AAIP worker stream candidates must meet Alberta job offer and employer requirements.
Streams for entrepreneurs
AAIP has 4 streams for entrepreneurs who plan to live in Alberta and buy or start a business in the province:
Rural Entrepreneur Stream
Rural Entrepreneur Stream – Entrepreneurs who want to start a business or buy an existing business in a rural Alberta community can submit an Expression of Interest.
Graduate Entrepreneur Stream
Graduate Entrepreneur Stream – International graduates of approved Alberta post-secondary institutions who want to start a business or buy an existing business can submit an Expression of Interest.
Farm Stream
Farm Stream – Experienced farmers who plan to buy or start a farm in Alberta can apply for nomination.
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream
Foreign Graduate Entrepreneur Stream – Foreign graduates who have a degree from a post-secondary institution outside of Canada and want to launch a start-up enterprise and innovative business can work with a designated agency to submit an Expression of Interest.
More information
Processing information
Expired streams
Job offer and employer requirements
Resources
Updates
AAIP answers for common questions
Contact
Connect with us if you have questions about the program:Use the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
Next
AAIP application streams
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta