Publicly funded post-secondary institutions | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Education and training
Post-secondary education
Post-secondary institutions
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions
Part of
Post-secondary institutions
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions
Publicly funded adult learning providers offer Alberta students a quality, affordable education.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions
Types of institutions
Government funding support for post-secondary institutions
Completed capital projects
Current capital projects
Contacts
Overview
The publicly funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta:
offer most of Alberta’s post-secondary programs
receive government funding to offset their operating costs
are accountable to Alberta taxpayers
Find out about the different types of publicly funded post-secondary institutions in Alberta.
Government's role
Government is responsible for:
setting the strategic direction for the system
providing funding to institutions and to learners via student aid
quality assurance
developing program standards with industry, and providing Journeyperson certificates
Find out more about grant funding support for these post-secondary institutions.
Accountability
Publicly funded post-secondary institutions are governed by boards that:
provide leadership that guides the institution’s future
are accountable for ensuring public funds are used effectively and appropriately
The ministry manages appointments of public members in accordance with the Government of Alberta's public agency appointment process, which is designed to ensure transparency, fairness, and the selection of individuals with the appropriate skills and experience to serve on boards, agencies and commissions.
The process strives to attract diverse and qualified applicants.
Institution boards report to government in several ways. Find out more about accountability and reporting requirements for publicly funded post-secondary institutions.
Related
Explore Alberta’s adult learning system
Adult learning system principles
Next
Types of institutions
Lead ministry:
Advanced Education
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta