Alberta Advantage Immigration Program – Learning resources | Alberta.ca
Skip to content
Skip to navigation
Search Alberta.ca
Popular topics:
Popular topics
Renew your vehicle registration
Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped (AISH)
Alberta Health Care Insurance Plan (AHCIP)
Wildfire status
Alberta.ca Account
Alberta.ca Account
Find and access the online government services you need.
Find a service
Find all of the Alberta government services and information you need.
Public engagements
Help shape the future of government policies, programs and services.
Jobs
Government of Alberta jobs, job postings across the province, and resources for job seekers.
News
September 22, 2026
Levelling up local business for global success
September 22, 2026
More career education and financial literacy
September 22, 2026
Update on ASIRT investigation in Yukon
September 22, 2026
Suspending fuel tax for savings at the pump
September 22, 2026
Alberta’s top trades talent on the world stage
Alberta.ca home
Open government
Contact government
Social media directory
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
Feature
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Eligible individuals can apply to be nominated to work and live in Alberta permanently.
Home
All services
Moving to Alberta
Immigration
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Learning resources
English
Français
Part of
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program – Learning resources
Webinars, publications and other resources you might need for the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program application process.
Skip to On this page
Skip to Explore pages in
Explore pages in:
Learning resources
AAIP webinars
Introduction
Below are tools and resources to help you complete an Expression of Interest, and if you are selected, how to apply to the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program (AAIP). On the webinar page, you can register for upcoming webinars and watch recorded webinars.
Check your eligibility for AAIP
Before you begin, make sure you are eligible to apply for AAIP and what stream you should apply for.
Use the AAIP Eligibility Explorer
AAIP common questions
Check out our answers to common questions asked about the Alberta Advantage Immigration Program.
Webinars
Live and recorded webinars and videos are available to help you learn more about AAIP streams and pathways.
Register for new AAIP webinars or watch recorded webinars and videos
National Occupational Classification
The National Occupational Classification (NOC) system, developed by the Government of Canada, classifies every job in Canada and assigns it a 5-digit National Occupational Classification code.
Your NOC code will determine your eligibility to apply to AAIP.
Use the Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada (IRCC) Find your NOC tool to determine the NOC code that best fits your occupation.
IQAS
The International Qualifications Assessment Service (IQAS) will assess your foreign educational credentials and provide information on how your credentials compare to educational standards in Canada.
Translation
AAIP accepts educational documents, work reference letters or other documents in English or French. Documents in other languages may require translation. Details on translation requirements are included in AAIP Document Checklists for each stream.
Resources
Fillable PDF forms may not open properly on some mobile devices and web browsers. See the step-by-step guide or contact PDF form technical support.
Worker Stream Expression of Interest points grid
Helpful Hints for the AAIP Portal
Worker Stream Document Checklist
Employer Declaration and Authorization
Use of Representative form
Spouse, Common-Law Partners and Dependants Authorization form – this is referred to as Dependants Authorization form in the AAIP portal
Contact
Connect with AAIP if you have questions about the program:Use the Opportunity Alberta contact form.
Back to
Alberta Advantage Immigration Program
Next
AAIP webinars
Lead ministry:
Jobs, Economy, Trade and Immigration
Was this page helpful?
Yes
No
All fields are required unless otherwise indicated.
You will NOT receive a reply on your feedback. Do NOT include personal information. To get answers to questions, use
Alberta Connects.
What were you trying to do? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what you were trying to do.
What went wrong? (500 character limit)
Please tell us what went wrong.
Send your feedback
Your submissions are monitored by our web team and are used to help improve the experience on Alberta.ca.
Alberta.ca
Footer
Ministries
Jobs
Contact government
Staff directory
About Links
Using Alberta.ca
Disclaimer
Privacy
Accessibility
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Linkedin
©
2026
Government of Alberta