Practical Nurse | NorQuest College - Edmonton, Alberta
Choose a start date
Menu
Close
Search
Practical Nurse
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Explore NorQuest
Find a program or course
Browse programs and courses
Continuing education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Dual credit programs
Learning at NorQuest
Information sessions
Learn how to apply to NorQuest
Your starting point at NorQuest
How to apply
Get help with your application
Funding your education
Next steps for accepted students
Testing and assessment services
Transcripts and transfers
Tuition and fees
Forms and documents
Academic schedule
Information sessions
Attend a program webinar
Government funding opportunities
Webinars for international students
Information for international students
International students
Browse programs and courses
Webinars for international students
English language proficiency requirements
Equivalencies
Immigration
Agents
International student services
International projects
Learning abroad
Reduced tuition fees for Ukrainian students
Student services
Accessibility services
Career supports
Health and wellness supports
Indigenous student services
NorQuest Library
Tutorial and academic coaching
See more student services
Resources for students
Academic schedule
After graduation
Enrolling in courses
Funding your education
Student handbooks
Find more student resources
Campus life
Online networking and mentorship
Student ambassadors
Student events
Students' Association of NorQuest College
Experience more of campus life
Giving to NorQuest
Giving opportunities at NorQuest
Donate now
1000 Women
Creating an award or bursary
Establish an Endowment at NorQuest
Planned giving
About NorQuest College
About NorQuest College
News and events
Centres and Institutes
Campuses and maps
Virtual Tour
College directory
Governance
Facilities
Office of Equity
Research and innovation
Community partnerships
Resources
Policies and procedures
Publications and reports
Social hub
Login
MyMail
misiwe pehtâkwan (Moodle)
MyQuest
Room booking
Staff portal
Important links
How to apply
Your starting point at NorQuest
International students
Continuing Education
Tuition and fees
Service Desk
Donate
Careers
Library
Programs and courses
Practical Nurse
Apply now »
Or request  more information »
Close
Choose your start date to see related costs, courses, and program requirements.
Check out our delivery method definitions to see what fits your study best »
Pagination
Showing  of  upcoming start dates.
In this section
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Program requirements for  January 2027Academic requirements
Language Arts – this requirement can be met with any of the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in English Language Arts 30-1
70% in English Language Arts 30-2
60% in ESLG 1860
70% in ESLG 1898
Mathematics – this requirement can be met with any of the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in Mathematics 20-1
70% in Mathematics 20-2
50% in Mathematics 30-1
60% in Mathematics 30-2
60% in MATH 1524
Biology – this requirement can be met with the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in Biology 30
OR
Academic Assessment – Applicants who have submitted an application may be able to meet their academic requirements with a free assessment. Click here for more details or email student.advisor@norquest.ca to meet with an advisor.
Note: Academic admission requirements are different from English language proficiency requirements. NorQuest College English for Academic Purposes courses may be used to meet both requirements. See below for details.
If you're missing some academic requirements, you may be able to apply with recognized equivalencies. See how NorQuest’s equivalency options can help you qualify.
English language proficiency requirements
If English is your second language, you must provide proof of English language proficiency before admission. These results must be no more than two years old when you start your program.
Test scores we accept:
IELTS Academic: no score below 7.5 in listening, 7 in speaking, 6.5 in reading, and 7.0 in writing.
TOEFL iBT: 94
CELBAN: no score below 10 in listening, 8 in speaking, 8 in reading, 7 in writing
minimum of 50% in ESLG 1860 and ESLG 1861
To be accepted, all applicants must demonstrate English language proficiency (ELP). Explore the five ways you can meet this requirement at NorQuest.
Additional information
There is a heavy course load in the first term of the Practical Nurse program. We recommend you take the following courses before entering the program:
ANPH 1001
ANPH 1002
ENGL 2550
HEED 1000
PSYC 1060
SOCI 1000
These courses can be taken through Open Studies at NorQuest College. Completing these courses allows for better success once you are enrolled. If you intend to apply for full-time student loan funding, contact a retention advisor about your course load before enrolling in Open Studies courses, as this may affect your funding opportunities.
For all deliveries, the Practical Nurse program has a five-year shelf-life regulation on all nursing courses, whether the courses were taken at NorQuest College or transferred from another institution. Visit Transfer credits for more information.
Practicum/work experience requirements
Before you attend your first practicum, you will need:
to successfully complete all prerequisite courses.
the following courses. Certificates will be awarded upon completion:
WHMIS: XBUS 1017 (current within three years)
BLS (CPR): XHLT 1200 (current within one year)
It's Your Move: XHLT 1070 (current within one year)
HPBE: XHLT 1023 (current within three years)
a clear Police Information Check. A Vulnerable Sector Check is also needed if you are over 18 years of age.
an up-to-date immunization record.
to complete the AHS or Covenant Health information & privacy online learning module.
to complete the HSPNet consent form.
N95 mask fit testing (current within two years).
There may be costs associated with completing these requirements. See Completing work, practicum, and clinical requirements for details and further instructions.
International students: You must verify your eligibility to proceed with work placements in advance by submitting a copy of your study permit (and a co-op work permit, if you have one) to the International Office (international@norquest.ca). See Student Work Placement Authorization for more information.
Progression and graduation
Students must receive a passing grade in each course to progress through the program. To remain in good academic standing, a minimum term grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 and a passing grade in all Pass/Fail courses (no WF or F) is required.
The Academic Standing Policy and Procedure provide further details on the categories of academic standing, and the consequences and supports available if a student is not in good academic standing.
A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 in the program’s courses is required to qualify for graduation. The program must be completed within five years of your start date.
Honours criteria
Overall grade point average (GPA) greater than or equal to 3.7
The student must not have failed or repeated any courses
Have a question about the Practical Nurse program?
Request more information »
Close
NPRT 1001, NPRT 2101, and NPRT 2102 are clinical courses that require in-person attendance for four weeks at a time.
Edmonton, Wetaskwin: Clinical shifts are Monday to Friday with a mix of day (6:30 am to 2:30 pm) and evening (2:30 pm to 10:30 pm) schedule.
Mobile Castor or Killam lab: These will be 12-hour day shifts on the weekend (6:30 am to 6:30 pm).
NPRT 2200  is an eight-week comprehensive clinical. This clinical may be provided within a requested area, depending on site availability. Students will work the same shifts as the ones listed above. This may include weekends, evenings, nights, holidays, or a combination of shifts.
Close
Some courses may transfer as advanced credit, meaning they directly replace specific university courses, while others may count as general credit toward elective or degree requirements.
Get our application guide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
Yes, send me the guide
Learn how to apply to Practical Nurse
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
What type of student are you?
Canadian citizen/permanent resident/refugee
Indigenous student
International student
Email address
Program
Privacy notice statement
The personal information requested on this form is collected under the authority of section 33(c) of Alberta’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and will be used to process your request for information, for internal statistical and enrolment management purposes and to provide ongoing information regarding our courses, programs or events. For information about the collection and use of this information, contact the Regulatory & Compliance Coordinator at 10215 108 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 1L6, Tel. 780.644.6000.
We appreciate your interest in NorQuest’s Program name! However, this program is not open to international students at this time. For a full list of programs available to international students, please visit the Programs and Courses page.
If you’re not sure which program is perfect for you, NorQuest’s International Student Recruiters can help. Contact international.recruitment@norquest.ca or book a meeting.
Amiskwacîwâskahikan
We acknowledge that we are on the traditional lands, referred to as Treaty 6 Territory and that the City of Edmonton and all the people here are beneficiaries of this peace and friendship treaty.
NorQuest College
10215 108 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T5J 1L6
Campus map
Contact us
Programs and courses
How to apply
Student resources
About us
©2026 NorQuest College. All rights reserved.
Terms of use
|
Privacy statement