Practical Nurse | NorQuest College - Edmonton, Alberta
Choose a start date
Menu
Close
Search
Practical Nurse
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Explore NorQuest
Find a program or course
Browse programs and courses
Continuing education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Dual credit programs
Learning at NorQuest
Information sessions
Learn how to apply to NorQuest
Your starting point at NorQuest
How to apply
Get help with your application
Funding your education
Next steps for accepted students
Testing and assessment services
Transcripts and transfers
Tuition and fees
Forms and documents
Academic schedule
Information sessions
Attend a program webinar
Government funding opportunities
Webinars for international students
Information for international students
International students
Browse programs and courses
Webinars for international students
English language proficiency requirements
Equivalencies
Immigration
Agents
International student services
International projects
Learning abroad
Reduced tuition fees for Ukrainian students
Student services
Accessibility services
Career supports
Health and wellness supports
Indigenous student services
NorQuest Library
Tutorial and academic coaching
See more student services
Resources for students
Academic schedule
After graduation
Enrolling in courses
Funding your education
Student handbooks
Find more student resources
Campus life
Online networking and mentorship
Student ambassadors
Student events
Students' Association of NorQuest College
Experience more of campus life
Giving to NorQuest
Giving opportunities at NorQuest
Donate now
1000 Women
Creating an award or bursary
Establish an Endowment at NorQuest
Planned giving
About NorQuest College
About NorQuest College
News and events
Centres and Institutes
Campuses and maps
Virtual Tour
College directory
Governance
Facilities
Office of Equity
Research and innovation
Community partnerships
Resources
Policies and procedures
Publications and reports
Social hub
Login
MyMail
misiwe pehtâkwan (Moodle)
MyQuest
Room booking
Staff portal
Important links
How to apply
Your starting point at NorQuest
International students
Continuing Education
Tuition and fees
Service Desk
Donate
Careers
Library
Programs and courses
Practical Nurse
Apply now »
Or request  more information »
Close
Choose your start date to see related costs, courses, and program requirements.
Check out our delivery method definitions to see what fits your study best »
Pagination
Showing  of  upcoming start dates.
In this section
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
To meet Alberta's growing needs in health care, the demand for licensed practical nurses is increasing. NorQuest College's Practical Nurse program, one of the largest in Canada, will prepare you to become a professional practical nurse educated to give high-quality care to clients in a variety of health-care settings.
Program details
Outcome
Diploma       Length
5 - 9 terms  Next start date
January 2027Location
Edmonton, OnlinePost-graduate work permit
Yes
View all start dates »
Learn in your own community
Live in or around Castor or Killam and interested in this program? We offer a pathway designed for learners like you. You can study, complete your practicum, and move into employment without leaving your own community.
You’ll receive the same quality instruction, flexible blended learning, and practicums close to or within where you live. No relocation required.
How to apply: Select the Rural Intake option in your application
Questions? Reach out to us
My whole goal is to one day continue my education and earn my registered nurse degree. I now know that is something that can happen. NorQuest helped with my confidence. I will always remember what NorQuest did for me.
Clark Castello
Practical Nurse, 2017
What to expect from the program
Do you enjoy helping others? Are you looking for a rewarding and meaningful healthcare career? Practical nurses are essential to Alberta’s healthcare system and are currently in high demand. In this program, you’ll gain a combination of the theoretical knowledge, hands-on training, and practicum experience you will need to successfully write your Canadian Licensed Practical Nurse registration exam.
NorQuest College education is inclusive, and our students are supported and prepared to meet the needs of a diverse society with hands-on training, caring for, and with, people from a variety of cultures, religions, and genders.
Graduate with experience
NorQuest College believes in the importance of on-the-job experience that provides an enriched learning opportunity.
Hands-on learning
You’ll graduate with 195 hours of hands-on practice in a variety of lab settings.
Engage with standardized patients, high fidelity mannikins, and virtual reality learning throughout your program in our Olson Centre for Health Simulation
Clinical placements
You’ll graduate from this program with 680 hours of work experience from four practicums.
You will take part in a full-time clinical practicum and must arrange your own transportation to and from the facility. You may need to travel up to 100 km.
Clinical shifts may include daytime, evenings, weekends, holidays, or a combination of shifts, depending on the  course and delivery location.
Bringing nursing education to you
NorQuest is committed to providing accessible education, and that includes meeting the needs of rural students. Our flexible approach for our rural delivery options combines blended learning, a mobile training lab, and local clinical placements, so you can get the education you need, right where you live.
Choosing your delivery option
This program offers multiple options—select the format that best fits your life and the way you learn.
Your class schedule will depend on the delivery options and locations you choose:
Daytime: Monday to Friday (evening and weekend classes may be offered/required in certain courses)
Evenings: Classes are delivered Monday to Friday after 5PM (weekend classes may be offered in certain courses)
Weekends: Classes are delivered on weekends
You will be required to complete your labs and clinical components in person at your designated lab location
Once you have applied for your program in a specific delivery option, it is expected that you will continue and complete your program in that chosen option. If an extenuating circumstance arises, you will be required to meet with a student program advisor and leadership to determine if it’s possible to change your delivery method.
In person — 2 years
Offered in Edmonton or Wetaskiwin
Classes are held in a classroom with face-to-face instruction and regularly scheduled meeting times.
Online anytime with in-person labs — 3 years
Offered in Edmonton
Classes have no set meeting times, so you can work on your own schedule within set start and end dates. Some assignments have deadlines, and your in-person labs will usually occur over one to two weeks.
Blended — 2 years
Offered in Edmonton, Wetaskiwin, or mobile/rural lab
Lectures and theory components offered online real-time, online anytime, in-person, and/or hyflex. All courses will be scheduled in the option that best suits the schedule.
Additional information
You must get licensure from the College of LPNs and HCAs of Alberta (CLHA) to practice as a licensed practical nurse. You must pass the Canadian Practical Nurse Registration Exam to attain active licensure with the CLHA.
Visit the College of LPNs and HCAs of Alberta website for further details on the registration for new graduates.
Career opportunities
Practical nurses find jobs in acute care hospitals, continuing care centres, community care settings, client homes, clinics, or doctors' offices.
For more information on related careers see:
ALIS OCCinfo occupational profiles
ALIS WAGEinfo salary info
This program prepares you to step confidently into your field while providing the flexibility to continue your education. Credits you earn may be transferable toward additional diplomas, degrees, or certifications—helping you advance your career and increase your earning potential. Explore transfer pathways.
What to expect as a practical nurse
Applicants should assess their ability to fulfill the demands of the practical nurse occupation.
As a practical nurse, you must be able to:
Work shifts and weekends
Be on your feet for extended periods of time
Use your knees, back, and arms to move clients who have minimal body strength
Provide care to support people of various diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds, gender identities, sexual preferences, and socio-economic status
Function effectively in stressful situations
Perform all skills independently
Important information for international students
This program qualifies for a study permit, and a post-graduate work permit in Canada. Learn more about obtaining your study permit, and how to apply for a post-graduate work permit along with other important immigration information.
See where you'll learn
Explore the classrooms and program labs designed to enhance your learning.
View the virtual tour
Related programs
Health Care Aide  Train in one of Canada’s largest Health Care Aide programs and learn to provide front-line care and support in hospitals, home care, and continuing care.
Health Care Leadership  Build leadership and management skills with post-diploma training for health care professionals. Get ready to lead teams and advance your career.
Practical Nurse Diploma for Internationally Educated Nurses  Prepare to become a practical nurse in Canada by building on previous health care education and strengthening your English skills.
Attend an upcoming information session
Join a student recruiter and program expert to explore everything you need to know, from program structure, career pathways, transfer agreements, admission requirements, and more. Bring your questions—we’re here to help!
October 17, 2026
10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.
Other
Register
Have a question about the Practical Nurse program?
Request more information »
Close
NPRT 1001, NPRT 2101, and NPRT 2102 are clinical courses that require in-person attendance for four weeks at a time.
Edmonton, Wetaskwin: Clinical shifts are Monday to Friday with a mix of day (6:30 am to 2:30 pm) and evening (2:30 pm to 10:30 pm) schedule.
Mobile Castor or Killam lab: These will be 12-hour day shifts on the weekend (6:30 am to 6:30 pm).
NPRT 2200  is an eight-week comprehensive clinical. This clinical may be provided within a requested area, depending on site availability. Students will work the same shifts as the ones listed above. This may include weekends, evenings, nights, holidays, or a combination of shifts.
Close
Some courses may transfer as advanced credit, meaning they directly replace specific university courses, while others may count as general credit toward elective or degree requirements.
Get our application guide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
Yes, send me the guide
Learn how to apply to Practical Nurse
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
What type of student are you?
Canadian citizen/permanent resident/refugee
Indigenous student
International student
Email address
Program
Privacy notice statement
The personal information requested on this form is collected under the authority of section 33(c) of Alberta’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and will be used to process your request for information, for internal statistical and enrolment management purposes and to provide ongoing information regarding our courses, programs or events. For information about the collection and use of this information, contact the Regulatory & Compliance Coordinator at 10215 108 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 1L6, Tel. 780.644.6000.
We appreciate your interest in NorQuest’s Program name! However, this program is not open to international students at this time. For a full list of programs available to international students, please visit the Programs and Courses page.
If you’re not sure which program is perfect for you, NorQuest’s International Student Recruiters can help. Contact international.recruitment@norquest.ca or book a meeting.
Amiskwacîwâskahikan
We acknowledge that we are on the traditional lands, referred to as Treaty 6 Territory and that the City of Edmonton and all the people here are beneficiaries of this peace and friendship treaty.
NorQuest College
10215 108 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T5J 1L6
Campus map
Contact us
Programs and courses
How to apply
Student resources
About us
©2026 NorQuest College. All rights reserved.
Terms of use
|
Privacy statement