Agricultural Management Diploma | Olds College | Alberta, Canada
Skip to main content
News & Events
Broncos Athletics
Donate
Sign In
Information For
Future Students
Admitted Students
Current Students
International Admissions
Alumni Association
Giving to Olds College
Programs & Courses
Programs & Courses »
Explore Areas of Interest
Trades & Apprenticeship
Industry Training & Continuing Education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Post-Diploma Certificate
Transitional Employment Program (TEP)
Campus Alberta Central
Programs for Youth »
Dual Credit Programming
Green Certificate
Programs for Youth
Admissions
Admissions »
Explore Programs, Pathways & Admission Steps
International Admissions
Scholarships & Awards
Talk to Recruitment
Apply Now
Admitted Students
Student Funding
Office of the Registrar »
Academic Calendars
Articulation & Agreements
Career Services
Dates & Schedules
Student Forms
Student Records
Tuition, Fees & Payments
Your Voice
Work-Integrated Learning
Current Students
Convocation & Graduation
Student Life
Student Life »
Campus Housing
Dining on Campus
Campus Safety
Student Spaces
Athletics & Recreation
The Students’ Association
Student Opportunities
Teaching & Learning Centre of Innovation
Student Resources »
Accessibility Services
Health & Wellness
Library
Student Rights and Responsibilities
Learning Support
Career Services
Campus
Campus »
Campus & Facilities
Take a Virtual Tour
Botanic Gardens & Constructed Wetlands
Shop Our Campus »
Greenhouse
Retail Meat Store
Campus Store
The Studio
Print Services
Plan a Visit »
Parking at Olds College
Schedule a Tour
Maps & Directions
Book An Event at Olds College »
Weddings at Olds College
Catering Services
Stay on Campus
Smart Farm & Research
Smart Farm & Research »
Olds College Centre for Innovation
Research Articles & Stories
Research Projects
Research & Farm Teams
Areas of Focus »
Controlled Environment Agriculture
Crop Production
Environmental Stewardship
Livestock Production
Entrepreneurship & Innovation
Smart Agriculture
Faculty-Led Research
Office of Research Services »
Research Partnerships
Work With Us
Impact Report
Smart Farm Newsletter
About Us
About Us »
Administration
Contact Us
Join the Team
Our Faculty
Our History
In Memoriam
Indigenous Olds College
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Reports & Publications
Governance
Policies
Access & Privacy
Giving to Olds College
Olds College in the Community
Our Schools »
School of Life Sciences
School of Trades & Skills
Werklund School of Agriculture Technology
Apply
Agricultural Management Diploma
Apply Now!
Overview
Requirements
Program Details
Program Highlights
Resources
Apply Now!
Length: Two Years
Delivery: On-Campus
Program Intake: Fall Intake
CIP Code: AgriCommerce Major: 01.0101
CIP Code: Production Major: 01.0301
Our Agricultural Management diploma program gives you a comprehensive education in all aspects of the agriculture industry through a mix of classroom time and hands-on experience on the Olds College Smart Farm.
Overview
You will develop a foundation of business skills, including communication, accounting and marketing strategies and be exposed to the advancement of agricultural technology, from accounting software to farm machinery. Gain an environmental understanding in the production of food, feed, fuel and fibre, livestock physiology and health, and the global issues that are currently impacting the industry. Learning from industry professionals, you will have a great understanding of farm and pest management, crop production, soil and nutrition, and Precision Crop Systems after completing this program.
Program Outcomes
Upon successful completion of this program, graduates will receive a diploma in Agricultural Management, with a major in Agriculture Production or Agricommerce.
Admission Requirements
50% or better in English Language Arts 30-1 or 30-2
55% or better in Math 20-1 or 20-2
50% or better in Two of Biology 20, Chemistry 20, Science 20, OR One of Biology 30, Chemistry 30, Science 30
Academic Upgrading and High School Applicants: Applicants currently in high school or who are completing academic upgrading must submit proof of enrollment and any available interim/midterm marks. Final marks must be submitted within one month following the completion of the course(s) and no later than one month prior to the program start date.
Out of Province Applicants: Please refer to the Provincial Equivalency Chart for course equivalencies.
International Applicants: Olds College welcomes applications from International Applicants and those who have completed their high school education outside of Canada.
Please note, it is still necessary to meet all of the noted admission requirements, including English Language Proficiency.
Alternate Admission Option
Alternate Admission status may apply to students who have not or will not complete one of the academic admission requirements. To apply under Alternate Admission Status, please provide the following:
(Required) Transcript(s) showing any completed high school and post-secondary courses
(Required) Letter of Introduction and Intent, outlining the following:
Introduce yourself
Indicate why you wish to enrol in the program
Elaborate on your career goals
Detail your experience relevant to this program and the industry
How you plan to be successful with the missing requirement.
(Required) A resume of your work history, extracurricular activities, volunteer service, etc. for the last 5 years
(Optional) Include copies of any tickets and/or certificates you currently hold (e.g.: first aid, safety tickets, etc.)
(Optional) Letter(s) of reference from current or past employers/coaches/etc. (maximum of two letters)
*Submitting Alternate Admission material does not guarantee admission*
Transfer Options
Olds College of Agriculture & Technology has developed agreements with other educational institutions to allow for transition to Olds College, or to another institution to continue your education. Articulations & Agreements
Program Details
Tuition, Fees & Affordability
Course Details
Career Outcomes
Funding & Awards
Admitted Students
Tuition, Fees & Affordability
Estimated Tuition & Fees for Domestic Applicants
Year
Tuition
Fees
Books & Supplies
Estimated Total
Year 1
$6,400.00
$1,600.00
$1,900.00
$9,900.00
Year 2
$6,400.00
$1,600.00
$600.00
$8,600.00
These fees are provided as estimates only based on the current academic year.
The estimate only includes tuition, mandatory fees and books & supplies.
Refer to the appropriate academic year Fee Schedule for the most up to date information.
International students pay a differentiated tuition rate and should refer to the appropriate academic year Fee Schedule.
Tuition, Fees & Payments
Housing & Meal Plans
Olds College offers two residence options — Centennial Village and College Courts. Students living on campus are required to choose a meal plan. Housing and meal plan costs are based on the full academic year (September to April), but students in single-term programs will only pay for the corresponding term.
For more details, visit Dining at Olds College and Campus Housing.
Course Details
Students choose a major to specialize in. Options include:
Agricultural Production Major
Designed for students who plan to work in a production enterprise, its service providers or in the new regulatory environments as auditors and inspectors. You will develop an understanding of how consumer preferences and markets influence agricultural production. Learn about agricultural environment management and sustainability, including the study of plant systems, their dependent ecosystems, and the mechanics of soil and water management.
Agricommerce Major
You will be prepared for a career in agricultural lending, finance, marketing and sales of service products to the agriculture industry or the agricultural products destined for the consumer's plate. You will develop the skills to successfully develop business plans, marketing campaigns, sales tactics, and strategically manage an agribusiness through applying business principles to achieve goals.
Course Descriptions
For course descriptions and requisites, view the Academic Calendar.
Academic Calendar: Agricultural Management
Term 1
Completed the following:
AGN1240 - Principles of Crop Production
AMT1035 - Agricultural Business Management Principles
AMT1040 - Survey of Agribusiness
AMT1335 - Agribusiness Accounting
LVS1370 - Principles of Animal Agriculture
Term 2
Complete all of the following
Completed the following:
AMT1360 - Computer Applications for Agribusiness
COM1020 - Workplace Communication
MKG1021 - Marketing Principles
Major specific courses. See Academic Calendar for complete course listings.
Term 3
Major specific courses. See Academic Calendar for complete course listings.
Term 4
Complete all of the following
Completed the following:
AMT2630 - Agribusiness Planning and Management
COM1030 - Workplace Professionalism
Major specific courses. See Academic Calendar for complete course listings.
Career Outcomes
Our graduates are highly sought after, thanks to our strong industry partnerships and hands-on training. You’ll be well-prepared for a variety of exciting careers in agriculture, including:
Applied research technician
Agricultural lender
Processing plant technician
Marketer of agricultural commodities or processed products
Farm, feedlot or ranch manager
Ready to start your career?
Visit ALIS - Occupational Profiles to discover current wages, industry trends, and more about your future job.
Funding & Awards
Student Funding
There are many options to help you fund your education. Our Financial Aid Officer on campus will be available to assist you prepare student loan documentation, provide confirmation of enrolment to release RESP's or obtain private loans, and help you find funding.
Student Funding
Scholarships & Student Awards
Olds College of Agriculture & Technology offers over 475 awards, valued at $1.5million in scholarships, bursaries and prizes. Thanks to our industry partners, alumni, and friends of Olds College we are fortunate to offer a generous student awards program to students.
Scholarships & Awards
Entrance Awards Available!
Entrance awards range from $250 - $1,500 for students applying for the upcoming academic year and have paid the tuition deposit by the deadline.
Awards are selected randomly from those that have applied and qualify based on the criteria.Award will be applied as a tuition credit to the student's account after the add/drop course deadline, confirming full-time attendance.
Admitted Students Information
Program Dates
Find out when your term start and end dates are, so that you know when you are expected to be in attendance. For more information, please review the Program Dates & Fee Schedule.
Class Registration
You will be registered into your classes automatically. This will happen approximately 1 month prior to the start-date for your program. You will be notified once you have been timetabled into your courses. You will be able to see your class schedule in your My Olds College account. If you need to make any changes to your class registration, please contact the Office of the Registrar.
Technology Recommendation
It is required that you come to Olds College of Agriculture & Technology with the following technology:
A laptop capable of running Microsoft Office is mandatory for this program, as students will be using Excel and other Microsoft Office programs extensively in lectures and classes.
As part of your student accounts, all students have access to Office 365 for the duration of their time with Olds College. To access this you just need to follow these steps:
Go to portal.office.com
Enter your Olds College email address and password
Once logged in there is a button on the right that says "Install Office Apps"
This will give you access to the full Office suite on your computer, for both Windows and Mac based platforms.
Materials & Supplies
The following items are required:
Texas Instrument BA II Plus calculator
Coveralls
Rubber boots
Steel toed work boots (CSA approved)
Safety glasses
There may be other necessary items (ie. cold weather attire) that may be required during your time at Olds College.
A copy of your valid driver’s license is necessary to operate Olds College equipment.
Information on required textbooks and any further supplies will be provided as you attend each class. All books and supplies will be available during the first few weeks of classes in the College Campus Store.
For students taking LVS 2470 as one of their electives, they will require a digital thermometer and a stethoscope.
Other Important Information:
Student Clubs: The Aggies
Program Highlights
During my time at Olds College of Agriculture & Technology, I gained valuable professional skills, practical knowledge and industry experience through hands-on learning and working alongside industry professionals. These experiences helped me apply my learning directly to industry, build confidence and prepare for my career in agriculture, while also growing as a student, professional, person and student-athlete. I am incredibly grateful for my four years at Olds College and proud to be an Olds College alumnus. Go Broncos!
Sydney Joyce                                                                                                                                         Bachelor of Applied Science - Agribusiness, 2023-25
Agriculture Management Diploma, AgriCommerce Major, 2021-23
Olds College Women’s Volleyball, 2021-24
Read Full Testimonial
I’ve always wanted a career in the agriculture industry, so the Agriculture Management diploma program felt like a perfect fit. After receiving my diploma, I knew I wanted to continue to expand my knowledge and skills within the industry so I enrolled into the Bachelor of Applied Science - Agribusiness degree program.
Emilie Edgar                                                                                                                                        Bachelor of Applied Science in Agribusiness
Research Technician, Olds College
I chose Olds College, not only because it was close to home, but because of the industry connections and cutting-edge programming that focuses on the future of agriculture.
Brody Nestorvich                                                                                                                                        Bachelor of Applied Science in Agribusiness, 2022
Agricultural Management Diploma, Agricommerce Major, 2020 Graduate
My time at Olds College allowed me to grow - not just professionally, but as a person. Whether it was in class, through the Students’ Association or in the community, the hands-on experiences that I’ve had gave me the confidence to lead, take on new challenges and launch my career.
Anna Dau                                                                                                                                        Bachelor of Applied Science - Agribusiness, 2027
President, Students’ Association of Olds College 2024-2026
Talk to Recruitment!
Connect directly with the recruitment team at Olds College to get personalized support as you explore your pathway to post-secondary study. Whether you have questions about programs, admission requirements, campus life or next steps in your application journey, our recruitment specialists are here to help you make informed decisions and plan with confidence.
Talk to Recruitment
Resources & Links
Program Resources
View Course Calendar
Campus Housing
Dates & Schedules
Apply Now
Additional Resources
Request Information
Information Sessions
Plan a Visit
Take a Virtual Tour
Contact
Office of the Registrar
1.800.661.6537
info@oldscollege.ca
Apply now for 2026-27!
Applications for 2027-28 open Oct. 1, 2026, 9 a.m.
Get started — learn how to apply today!
Our easy online application process guides you through each step, making it simple to apply and get started. Start preparing now, and be ready to apply!
4500 50 St, Olds, AB T4H 1R6, Canada
1.800.661.6537
info@oldscollege.ca
Information For
Future Students
Admitted Students
Current Students
International Admissions
Alumni Association
Giving to Olds College
Resources
Campus Map
Campus Safety
Conference & Event Services
Marketing & Communications
Olds College ALERT
Employment
Policies
Give to Olds College
Instagram
XTwitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Youtube
© 1913- Olds College of Agriculture & Technology. All rights reserved.
Olds College of Agriculture & Technology is located in the traditional territories of the people of Treaty 7, which includes the Siksika, the Piikani, the Kainai, the TsuutÃƒÂ¢€™ina and the Stoney Nakoda First Nations. The area is also home to MÃƒƒÃ‚Â©tis Nation of Alberta, District 3.
Close Search Form