Program requirements for
January 2027
Academic requirements
Language Arts
– this requirement can be met with any of the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in English Language Arts 30-1
70% in English Language Arts 30-2
60% in
ESLG 1860
70% in
ESLG 1898
Mathematics
– this requirement can be met with any of the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in Mathematics 20-1
70% in Mathematics 20-2
50% in Mathematics 30-1
60% in Mathematics 30-2
60% in
MATH 1524
Biology
– this requirement can be met with the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in Biology 30
OR
Academic Assessment
– Applicants who have submitted an application may be able to meet their academic requirements with a free assessment. Click
here
for more details or email
student.advisor@norquest.ca
to meet with an advisor.
Note:
Academic admission requirements are different from English language proficiency requirements. NorQuest College English for Academic Purposes courses may be used to meet both requirements. See below for details.
If you're missing some academic requirements, you may be able to apply with recognized equivalencies. See how NorQuest’s
equivalency options
can help you qualify.
English language proficiency requirements
If English is your second language, you must provide proof of English language proficiency before admission. These results must be no more than two years old when you start your program.
Test scores we accept:
IELTS Academic: no score below 7.5 in listening, 7 in speaking, 6.5 in reading, and 7.0 in writing.
TOEFL iBT: 94
CELBAN: no score below 10 in listening, 8 in speaking, 8 in reading, 7 in writing
minimum of 50% in
ESLG 1860
and
ESLG 1861
To be accepted, all applicants must demonstrate English language proficiency (ELP). Explore the
five ways you can meet this requirement
at NorQuest.
Additional information
There is a heavy course load in the first term of the Practical Nurse program. We recommend you take the following courses before entering the program:
ANPH 1001
ANPH 1002
ENGL 2550
HEED 1000
PSYC 1060
SOCI 1000
These courses can be taken through
Open Studies
at NorQuest College. Completing these courses allows for better success once you are enrolled. If you intend to apply for full-time student loan funding, contact a retention advisor about your course load before enrolling in Open Studies courses, as this may affect your funding opportunities.
For all deliveries, the Practical Nurse program has a five-year shelf-life regulation on all nursing courses, whether the courses were taken at NorQuest College or transferred from another institution. Visit
Transfer credits
for more information.
Practicum/work experience requirements
Before you attend your first practicum, you will need:
to successfully complete all prerequisite courses.
the following courses. Certificates will be awarded upon completion:
WHMIS:
XBUS 1017
(current within three years)
BLS (CPR):
XHLT 1200
(current within one year)
It's Your Move:
XHLT 1070
(current within one year)
HPBE:
XHLT 1023
(current within three years)
a clear
Police Information Check
. A Vulnerable Sector Check is also needed if you are over 18 years of age.
an up-to-date
immunization record
.
to complete the
AHS
or
Covenant Health
information & privacy online learning module.
to complete the
HSPNet consent form
.
N95 mask fit testing
(current within two years).
There may be costs associated with completing these requirements. See
Completing work, practicum, and clinical requirements
for details and further instructions.
International students:
You must verify your eligibility to proceed with work placements in advance by submitting a copy of your study permit (and a co-op work permit, if you have one) to the International Office (
international@norquest.ca
). See
Student Work Placement Authorization
for more information.
Progression and graduation
Students must receive a passing grade in each course to progress through the program. To remain in good academic standing, a minimum term grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 and a passing grade in all Pass/Fail courses (no WF or F) is required.
The
Academic Standing Policy
and
Procedure
provide further details on the categories of academic standing, and the consequences and supports available if a student is not in good academic standing.
A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.00 in the program’s courses is required to qualify for graduation. The program must be completed within five years of your start date.
Honours criteria
Overall grade point average (GPA) greater than or equal to 3.7
The student must not have failed or repeated any courses
Have a question about the Practical Nurse program?
Request more information »
Close
NPRT 1001
,
NPRT 2101
, and
NPRT 2102
are clinical courses that require in-person attendance for four weeks at a time.
Edmonton, Wetaskwin:
Clinical shifts are Monday to Friday with a mix of day (6:30 am to 2:30 pm) and evening (2:30 pm to 10:30 pm) schedule.
Mobile Castor or Killam lab:
These will be 12-hour day shifts on the weekend (6:30 am to 6:30 pm).
NPRT 2200
is an eight-week comprehensive clinical. This clinical may be provided within a requested area, depending on site availability. Students will work the same shifts as the ones listed above. This may include weekends, evenings, nights, holidays, or a combination of shifts.
Close
Some courses may transfer as advanced credit, meaning they directly replace specific university courses, while others may count as general credit toward elective or degree requirements.