Health Care Aide | NorQuest College - Edmonton, Alberta
Choose a start date
Menu
Close
Search
Health Care Aide
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Explore NorQuest
Find a program or course
Browse programs and courses
Continuing education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Dual credit programs
Learning at NorQuest
Information sessions
Learn how to apply to NorQuest
Your starting point at NorQuest
How to apply
Get help with your application
Funding your education
Next steps for accepted students
Testing and assessment services
Transcripts and transfers
Tuition and fees
Forms and documents
Academic schedule
Information sessions
Attend a program webinar
Government funding opportunities
Webinars for international students
Information for international students
International students
Browse programs and courses
Webinars for international students
English language proficiency requirements
Equivalencies
Immigration
Agents
International student services
International projects
Learning abroad
Reduced tuition fees for Ukrainian students
Student services
Accessibility services
Career supports
Health and wellness supports
Indigenous student services
NorQuest Library
Tutorial and academic coaching
See more student services
Resources for students
Academic schedule
After graduation
Enrolling in courses
Funding your education
Student handbooks
Find more student resources
Campus life
Online networking and mentorship
Student ambassadors
Student events
Students' Association of NorQuest College
Experience more of campus life
Giving to NorQuest
Giving opportunities at NorQuest
Donate now
1000 Women
Creating an award or bursary
Establish an Endowment at NorQuest
Planned giving
About NorQuest College
About NorQuest College
News and events
Centres and Institutes
Campuses and maps
Virtual Tour
College directory
Governance
Facilities
Office of Equity
Research and innovation
Community partnerships
Resources
Policies and procedures
Publications and reports
Social hub
Login
MyMail
misiwe pehtâkwan (Moodle)
MyQuest
Room booking
Staff portal
Important links
How to apply
Your starting point at NorQuest
International students
Continuing Education
Tuition and fees
Service Desk
Donate
Careers
Library
Programs and courses
Health Care Aide
Apply now »
Or request  more information »
Close
Choose your start date to see related costs, courses, and program requirements.
Check out our delivery method definitions to see what fits your study best »
Pagination
Showing  of  upcoming start dates.
Program delivery notes
+ This session is offered over 12-months (3 terms)
* This session is offered over 8-months (2 terms)
In this section
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Program requirements for  + January 2027Academic requirements
English Language Arts – this requirement can be met with any of the following, or an equivalent course:
60% in English Language Arts 20-2
55% in English Language Arts 30-2
OR
Accuplacer reading and writing assessment – Applicants who have submitted an application may be able to meet their academic requirements with a free assessment. Click here for more details or email student.advisor@norquest.ca to meet with an advisor.
Note: Academic admission requirements are different from English language proficiency requirements. NorQuest College English for Academic Purposes courses may be used to meet academic requirements. See below for details.
If you're missing some academic requirements, you may be able to apply with recognized equivalencies. See how NorQuest’s equivalency options can help you qualify.
English language proficiency requirements
If English is your second language, you must provide proof of English language proficiency before admission. These results must be no more than two years old when you start your program.
Test scores we accept:
IELTS Academic: 6; no section score below 5.5
TOEFL iBT: 71
Duolingo: 95
CLBA or CLBPA: no section score below 7
CELPIP General: 7 - No section score less than 6
CELBAN: No score below: 7 listening, 7 speaking, 7 reading, 7 writing (not an average of 7)
To be accepted, all applicants must demonstrate English language proficiency (ELP). Explore the five ways you can meet this requirement at NorQuest.
Digital Literacy requirements Candidates must possess knowledge of computer/technology tools to be successful in the program. Candidates must:
Be able to communicate, research and understand information
Know how to use computer to surf web, email
Be able to critically evaluate and understand how technology can affect one's behaviour
Be able to create, produce content and effectively communication using email, media, Internet
Health Care Aide Workplace Education requirements
all program admission requirements listed
must be employed currently as a front-line caregiver with similar HCA responsibilities in a participating agency to be considered
meet the academic requirements for the program listed above.
must complete additional workplace Tutor Employment Confirmation Form for consideration for admission into the HCA Workplace program
Transfer Credits
Up to 50 percent of course credits or hours can be transferred from one Alberta licensed HCA Program to another Alberta licensed HCA Program. See Transfer Credits for more information.
Prior Learning Assessment and Recognition (PLAR)
You may be eligible to receive Prior learning assessment and recognition for some courses in the program if you have relevant work experience similar to a health care aide or caregiver and wish to meet provincial health care aide certification requirements. Prior learning assessment and recognition, or PLAR, is a way to get credits for your existing knowledge and skills. Testing includes portfolio assessment, examination or skills/lab assessment.
Eligibility
To be eligible for the HCA PLAR, you need to provide proof of the following:
Previous employment, including a job description, totaling 600+ hours within the past three years as an HCA or personal care provider.
English Language Proficiency requirement (see HCA program admission requirements)
Email HCAAcademicAdvisor@norquest.ca for more information about your eligibility for PLAR into HCA program prior to applying to the HCA program. A PLAR guide and self-assessment will be provided with more information. We recommend starting the PLAR process 6 weeks before your intended program start date.
Visit Prior learning assessment and recognition for more information about the general PLAR process.
Practicum/work experience requirements
Before you attend your first practicum, you will need:
to successfully complete all prerequisite courses.
the following courses. Certificates will be awarded upon completion:
WHMIS: XBUS 1017 (current within three years)
BLS (CPR): XHLT 1200. For the duration of your practicum, you must hold BLS for Health Care Provider’s certification that has been completed within the last 12 months
HBPE: XHLT 1023 (current within three years)
a clear Police Information Check. A Vulnerable Sector Check is also needed if you are over 18 years of age.
an up-to-date immunization record.*
to complete the AHS or Covenant Health information & privacy online learning module.
to complete the HSPNet consent form.
N95 mask fit testing arranged by the program (current within two years).
* Immunization requirements:
For full-time, all other part-time, and online delivery students, up to date immunizations must be completed and a record submitted by the To Do list items due dates.
For regional delivery students, up-to-date immunizations must be completed and a record submitted by the To-do list items due dates.
There may be costs associated with completing these requirements. See Completing work, practicum, and clinical requirements for details and further instructions.
International students: You must verify your eligibility to proceed with work placements in advance by submitting a copy of your study permit (and a co-op work permit, if you have one) to the International Office (international@norquest.ca). See Student Work Placement Authorization for more information.
Fund your education with the Alberta Health Care Aide bursary
Apply now »
Progression and graduation
Students must receive a passing grade in each course to progress through the program. To remain in good academic standing, a minimum term grade point average (GPA) of 2.70 and a passing grade in all Pass/Fail courses (no WF or F) is
required.
The Academic Standing Policy and Procedure provide further details on the categories of academic standing, and the consequences and supports available if a student is not in good academic standing.
A minimum cumulative grade point average (GPA) of 2.70 in the program’s courses is required to qualify for graduation.
Honours criteria
Overall grade point average (GPA) greater than or equal to 3.7
The student must not have failed or repeated any courses
Have a question about the Health Care Aide program?
Request more information »
Close
In Alberta, the health care aide profession is unregulated. To ensure consistent training of the health care aide workforce in Alberta, the Government of Alberta Health Care Aide Provincial Curriculum is used by licensed post-secondary institutions.
Close
Health Care Aides must demonstrate the competencies outlined in the Alberta Health Care Aide Competency Profile
Close
Instructor-led clinical placements (HLTH 1550 and HLTH 2550): For Edmonton campus and online students, placements will occur in Edmonton or surrounding communities. Wetaskiwin campus students will be placed in Wetaskiwin or surrounding communities. Your schedule may include day or evening shifts, Monday to Friday.
Close
A mentored clinical placement is a type of hands-on learning experience where a student is paired one-on-one with a practicing professional (called a buddy) in a real work setting.
Your consolidated clinical placement (HLTH 2551) may be arranged in or close to your community. Your schedule may include day, evening, or night shifts any day of the week, including weekends
Get our application guide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
Yes, send me the guide
Learn how to apply to Health Care Aide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
What type of student are you?
Canadian citizen/permanent resident/refugee
Indigenous student
International student
Email address
Program
Privacy notice statement
The personal information requested on this form is collected under the authority of section 33(c) of Alberta’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and will be used to process your request for information, for internal statistical and enrolment management purposes and to provide ongoing information regarding our courses, programs or events. For information about the collection and use of this information, contact the Regulatory & Compliance Coordinator at 10215 108 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 1L6, Tel. 780.644.6000.
We appreciate your interest in NorQuest’s Program name! However, this program is not open to international students at this time. For a full list of programs available to international students, please visit the Programs and Courses page.
If you’re not sure which program is perfect for you, NorQuest’s International Student Recruiters can help. Contact international.recruitment@norquest.ca or book a meeting.
Amiskwacîwâskahikan
We acknowledge that we are on the traditional lands, referred to as Treaty 6 Territory and that the City of Edmonton and all the people here are beneficiaries of this peace and friendship treaty.
NorQuest College
10215 108 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T5J 1L6
Campus map
Contact us
Programs and courses
How to apply
Student resources
About us
©2026 NorQuest College. All rights reserved.
Terms of use
|
Privacy statement