Early Learning and Child Care – diploma | NorQuest College - Edmonton, Alberta
Choose a start date
Menu
Close
Search
Early Learning and Child Care – diploma
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Explore NorQuest
Find a program or course
Browse programs and courses
Continuing education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Dual credit programs
Learning at NorQuest
Information sessions
Learn how to apply to NorQuest
Your starting point at NorQuest
How to apply
Get help with your application
Funding your education
Next steps for accepted students
Testing and assessment services
Transcripts and transfers
Tuition and fees
Forms and documents
Academic schedule
Information sessions
Attend a program webinar
Government funding opportunities
Webinars for international students
Information for international students
International students
Browse programs and courses
Webinars for international students
English language proficiency requirements
Equivalencies
Immigration
Agents
International student services
International projects
Learning abroad
Reduced tuition fees for Ukrainian students
Student services
Accessibility services
Career supports
Health and wellness supports
Indigenous student services
NorQuest Library
Tutorial and academic coaching
See more student services
Resources for students
Academic schedule
After graduation
Enrolling in courses
Funding your education
Student handbooks
Find more student resources
Campus life
Online networking and mentorship
Student ambassadors
Student events
Students' Association of NorQuest College
Experience more of campus life
Giving to NorQuest
Giving opportunities at NorQuest
Donate now
1000 Women
Creating an award or bursary
Establish an Endowment at NorQuest
Planned giving
About NorQuest College
About NorQuest College
News and events
Centres and Institutes
Campuses and maps
Virtual Tour
College directory
Governance
Facilities
Office of Equity
Research and innovation
Community partnerships
Resources
Policies and procedures
Publications and reports
Social hub
Login
MyMail
misiwe pehtâkwan (Moodle)
MyQuest
Room booking
Staff portal
Important links
How to apply
Your starting point at NorQuest
International students
Continuing Education
Tuition and fees
Service Desk
Donate
Careers
Library
Programs and courses
Early Learning and Child Care – diploma
Apply now »
Or request  more information »
Close
Choose your start date to see related costs, courses, and program requirements.
Check out our delivery method definitions to see what fits your study best »
Pagination
Showing  of  upcoming start dates.
Program delivery notes
* For students who have completed the certificate and are applying directly to Year 2.
In this section
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Build an impactful future supporting children to grow, thrive, and learn. The Early Learning and Child Care diploma opens doors to meaningful roles where you can nurture children’s development through play and care—and grow into leadership positions that shape programs, support families, and strengthen communities.
This diploma program prepares you for Early Childhood Educator III certification through the Government of Alberta.
Program details
Outcome
Diploma       Length
4 terms  Next start date
January 2027Location
EdmontonPost-graduate work permit
Yes
View all start dates »
Funding is available
If you are currently employed in this field, the Government of Alberta is offering funding for professional development and wage top ups for additional post-secondary training.
What to expect from the program
Recognized by Colleges and Institutes Canada for excellence, the Early Learning and Child Care diploma equips you with the knowledge and skills to provide quality care and create child-centered learning experiences that support healthy development. In the second half of the program, you will build on this foundation by exploring developmental stages, inclusive care, activity planning, management, and social contexts.
Graduates of this program are eligible to apply for Early Childhood Educator III certification through the Government of Alberta.
Graduate with experience
NorQuest College believes in the importance of on-the-job experience that provides an enriched learning opportunity.
You’ll graduate from this program with 800 hours of work experience from four practicums.
Your delivery option
To support your learning experience, this program is offered in the following format:
In person
Classes are held in a classroom with face-to-face instruction and regularly scheduled meeting times.
Already have the Early Learning and Child Care certificate from NorQuest College?
This program was designed to provide seamless transfer directly into year two of the Early Learning and Child Care - diploma program if you choose to advance your skills and qualifications to the next level. Graduates of the certificate program should apply into year two of the diploma.
Career opportunities
Graduates of this program have diverse opportunities to provide child-care services in daycares, preschools, early learning programs, out-of-school care program. or private home-based care.
The child-care field is considered to be an above-average growth profession with increasing annual demand for employees.
For more information on related careers see:
ALIS OCCinfo occupational profiles
This program prepares you to step confidently into your field while providing the flexibility to continue your education. Credits you earn may be transferable toward additional diplomas, degrees, or certifications—helping you advance your career and increase your earning potential.
Explore transfer pathways.
What to expect as a child care worker or supervisor
In a typical day, you might:
Plan and lead activities that encourage creativity, movement, and learning
Guide children through routines like meals, nap time, and outdoor play
Communicate with families and work collaboratively with a team
Maintain a safe, clean, and inclusive environment
Follow licensing, health, and safety regulations
The work is active and hands-on. You may need to:
Lift and carry young children
Move quickly to respond to situations
Spend long periods standing, kneeling, or sitting on the floor.
To thrive in this role, you’ll need to be:
Patient, calm, and caring
Physically active and safety-focused
Communicative, observant, and organized
Responsive to children’s needs and emotions
Important information for international students
This program qualifies for a study permit, and a post-graduate work permit in Canada. Learn more about obtaining your study permit, and how to apply for a post-graduate work permit along with other important immigration information.
See where you'll learn
Explore the classrooms and program labs designed to enhance your learning.
View the virtual tour
Related programs
Day Home Provider  The Day Home Provider program, designed for English language learners, is a 10-month integrated skills program that focuses on both academic and occupational skills through the content of early childhood training...
Early Learning and Child Care – certificate  Learn to support child development, provide care, and prepare for Early Childhood Educator II certification from Alberta Children’s Services.
Attend an upcoming information session
Join a student recruiter and program expert to explore everything you need to know, from program structure, career pathways, transfer agreements, admission requirements, and more. Bring your questions—we’re here to help!
October 17, 2026
10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.
Other
Register
Have a question about the Early Learning and Child Care – diploma program?
Request more information »
Close
Some courses may transfer as advanced credit, meaning they directly replace specific university courses, while others may count as general credit toward elective or degree requirements.
Get our application guide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
Yes, send me the guide
Learn how to apply to Early Learning and Child Care – diploma
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
What type of student are you?
Canadian citizen/permanent resident/refugee
Indigenous student
International student
Email address
Program
Privacy notice statement
The personal information requested on this form is collected under the authority of section 33(c) of Alberta’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and will be used to process your request for information, for internal statistical and enrolment management purposes and to provide ongoing information regarding our courses, programs or events. For information about the collection and use of this information, contact the Regulatory & Compliance Coordinator at 10215 108 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 1L6, Tel. 780.644.6000.
We appreciate your interest in NorQuest’s Program name! However, this program is not open to international students at this time. For a full list of programs available to international students, please visit the Programs and Courses page.
If you’re not sure which program is perfect for you, NorQuest’s International Student Recruiters can help. Contact international.recruitment@norquest.ca or book a meeting.
Amiskwacîwâskahikan
We acknowledge that we are on the traditional lands, referred to as Treaty 6 Territory and that the City of Edmonton and all the people here are beneficiaries of this peace and friendship treaty.
NorQuest College
10215 108 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T5J 1L6
Campus map
Contact us
Programs and courses
How to apply
Student resources
About us
©2026 NorQuest College. All rights reserved.
Terms of use
|
Privacy statement