Health Care Aide | NorQuest College - Edmonton, Alberta
Choose a start date
Menu
Close
Search
Health Care Aide
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Explore NorQuest
Find a program or course
Browse programs and courses
Continuing education
Microcredentials
Open Studies
Dual credit programs
Learning at NorQuest
Information sessions
Learn how to apply to NorQuest
Your starting point at NorQuest
How to apply
Get help with your application
Funding your education
Next steps for accepted students
Testing and assessment services
Transcripts and transfers
Tuition and fees
Forms and documents
Academic schedule
Information sessions
Attend a program webinar
Government funding opportunities
Webinars for international students
Information for international students
International students
Browse programs and courses
Webinars for international students
English language proficiency requirements
Equivalencies
Immigration
Agents
International student services
International projects
Learning abroad
Reduced tuition fees for Ukrainian students
Student services
Accessibility services
Career supports
Health and wellness supports
Indigenous student services
NorQuest Library
Tutorial and academic coaching
See more student services
Resources for students
Academic schedule
After graduation
Enrolling in courses
Funding your education
Student handbooks
Find more student resources
Campus life
Online networking and mentorship
Student ambassadors
Student events
Students' Association of NorQuest College
Experience more of campus life
Giving to NorQuest
Giving opportunities at NorQuest
Donate now
1000 Women
Creating an award or bursary
Establish an Endowment at NorQuest
Planned giving
About NorQuest College
About NorQuest College
News and events
Centres and Institutes
Campuses and maps
Virtual Tour
College directory
Governance
Facilities
Office of Equity
Research and innovation
Community partnerships
Resources
Policies and procedures
Publications and reports
Social hub
Login
MyMail
misiwe pehtâkwan (Moodle)
MyQuest
Room booking
Staff portal
Important links
How to apply
Your starting point at NorQuest
International students
Continuing Education
Tuition and fees
Service Desk
Donate
Careers
Library
Programs and courses
Health Care Aide
Apply now »
Or request  more information »
Close
Choose your start date to see related costs, courses, and program requirements.
Check out our delivery method definitions to see what fits your study best »
Pagination
Showing  of  upcoming start dates.
Program delivery notes
+ This session is offered over 12-months (3 terms)
* This session is offered over 8-months (2 terms)
In this section
What to expect
Program requirements
Costs and courses
Future education
Train in one of Canada’s largest Health Care Aide programs and prepare for a rewarding role supporting individuals who need care, dignity, and compassion. You’ll build the skills to provide essential front-line support in hospitals, continuing care, and home care settings. Graduate ready to take the Alberta Health Care Aide Registration Exam and step into an in-demand career.
Program details
Outcome
Certificate       Length
2 or 3 terms  Next start date
* January 2027Location
Edmonton, OnlinePost-graduate work permit
Yes
View all start dates »
My mom graduated from the NorQuest Health Care Aide program in 2011 and when I was there watching her walk across the stage to graduate, I thought, this is what I want to do. Having extra credits is going to help me a lot.
Nyssa Koleric
Health Care Aide, 2019
What to expect from the program
NorQuest College is licensed to deliver the Health Care Aide Government of Alberta Provincial Curriculum.
Graduates of the HCA Provincial Curriculum offered through NorQuest will meet the following mandated program learning outcomes which will help them to:
Perform competently within the roles and responsibilities as a HCA within the Alberta and the Canadian health care system.
Demonstrate professionalism, accountability, and responsibility as a HCA within a collaborative care team.
Provide ethical person-centred and culturally competent care to support, promote, and maintain the health and well-being, safety, independence, and comfort for the client across the lifespan in all health sectors.
Apply foundational theory, principles, and evidence-based practices to provide holistic care for clients across the life span and across all health sectors.
Communicate effectively with the collaborative care team.
Perform skills competently according to evidence-based guidelines across a variety of care settings for clients with various health needs and conditions.
Work with the collaborative care team to set and achieve common care goals.
Maintain safety of self, client, and environment by following government legislation, agency policy, and procedures.
Respond appropriately by recognizing, acting, reporting, and recording while integrating knowledge, practice, and experience to provide quality care.
Complete ongoing self-reflection to continuously develop HCA competencies.
Graduate with experience
NorQuest College believes in the importance of on-the-job experience that provides an enriched learning opportunity.
You’ll graduate from this program with 320 hours of work experience from three practicums.
Clinical placements
You will take part in a full-time clinical practicum and must arrange your own transportation to and from the facility. You may need to travel up to 100 km.
You will have  two instructor-led clinical placements and   one consolidated clinical placement.
Selecting your delivery option
Choose an 8 or 12-month program from the delivery options below. Consider your learning style, flexibility, and preferred location when selecting.
All delivery options include a mandatory in-person lab and clinical component (full days), which may account for 50% of course hours.
8 months
In person - Edmonton Campus with all theory and lab classes on campus during the week (Monday to Friday) and clinicals in Edmonton and surrounding areas. If you attend all your classes in person, at the Edmonton campus, then you will complete your program in eight months when learning full-time.
Online with in-person labs - Edmonton Campus with theory classes provided online and lab classes (labs on Fridays and Saturdays) on campus and clinicals in Edmonton and surrounding areas.
Wetaskiwin – Wetaskiwin Campus with lab classes in the evenings on campus and clinicals in Wetaskiwin and surrounding areas. Theory classes will be online.
12 months
Evening, in person - Edmonton Campus with all theory and lab classes on campus in the evenings and clinicals in Edmonton and surrounding areas.
Once enrolled, you’re expected to complete according to your chosen delivery option. Changes may be approved only in extenuating circumstances after meeting with a student program advisor and leadership.
Health Care Aide Workplace Education
Are you currently working as a health care aide, or in an equivalent care-giving position, and want to become certified? The Health Care Aide Workplace Education option is offered throughout Alberta in partnership with health-care employers. It can be taken over twelve months, allowing you to study at home and have your skills assessed by a NorQuest College trained tutor at your worksite.
Additional information
All health care aides must register with the College of Licensed Practical Nurses and Health Care Aides of Alberta (CLHA) to practice in Alberta. To qualify for registration, you must pass the Alberta HCA Registration Exam.
Visit the CLHA website for further details on registration.
Career opportunities
Health care aides work under the direct or indirect supervision of a regulated health professional, such as a nurse, in a variety of settings including:
Assisted living facilities
Home care
Long-term care
Upon successful completion of the program, you will be prepared to work in continuing care institutions, home care agencies, group homes, assisted or supportive living facilities, day programs, specialized care centres and programs, acute care hospitals, and private care.
For more information on related careers see:
ALIS OCCinfo occupational profiles
ALIS WAGEinfo salary info
What to expect as a health care aide
Health care aides provide basic health services, assistance, and support with daily living activities for clients who have medical conditions or major functional limitations.
Applicants should assess their ability to fulfill the demands of the health care aide occupation.
As a health care aide, you must be able to:
Work day, evening, and night shifts any day of the week
Be on your feet for extended periods of time
Bend, squat and lift up to 40 pounds to move clients who have minimal body strength
Function effectively in stressful situations
Perform all skills independently
Important information for international students
This program qualifies for a study permit, and a post-graduate work permit in Canada. Learn more about obtaining your study permit, and how to apply for a post-graduate work permit along with other important immigration information.
See where you'll learn
Explore the classrooms and program labs designed to enhance your learning.
View the virtual tour
Related programs
Health Care Aide Workplace  Experienced caregiver in a health-related role? Earn your health care aide certificate on the job with NorQuest’s workplace program.
Practical Nurse  Earn your Practical Nurse diploma in 2 years and get ready to write your licensing exam, with hands-on training, clinical placements, and flexible study options.
Attend an upcoming information session
Join a student recruiter and program expert to explore everything you need to know, from program structure, career pathways, transfer agreements, admission requirements, and more. Bring your questions—we’re here to help!
October 17, 2026
10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.
Other
Register
Have a question about the Health Care Aide program?
Request more information »
Close
In Alberta, the health care aide profession is unregulated. To ensure consistent training of the health care aide workforce in Alberta, the Government of Alberta Health Care Aide Provincial Curriculum is used by licensed post-secondary institutions.
Close
Health Care Aides must demonstrate the competencies outlined in the Alberta Health Care Aide Competency Profile
Close
Instructor-led clinical placements (HLTH 1550 and HLTH 2550): For Edmonton campus and online students, placements will occur in Edmonton or surrounding communities. Wetaskiwin campus students will be placed in Wetaskiwin or surrounding communities. Your schedule may include day or evening shifts, Monday to Friday.
Close
A mentored clinical placement is a type of hands-on learning experience where a student is paired one-on-one with a practicing professional (called a buddy) in a real work setting.
Your consolidated clinical placement (HLTH 2551) may be arranged in or close to your community. Your schedule may include day, evening, or night shifts any day of the week, including weekends
Get our application guide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
Yes, send me the guide
Learn how to apply to Health Care Aide
Get all the information you need on applying for your program in one, easy-to-follow application guide. We’ll deliver it straight to your inbox.
What type of student are you?
Canadian citizen/permanent resident/refugee
Indigenous student
International student
Email address
Program
Privacy notice statement
The personal information requested on this form is collected under the authority of section 33(c) of Alberta’s Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act and will be used to process your request for information, for internal statistical and enrolment management purposes and to provide ongoing information regarding our courses, programs or events. For information about the collection and use of this information, contact the Regulatory & Compliance Coordinator at 10215 108 Street NW, Edmonton, AB, T5J 1L6, Tel. 780.644.6000.
We appreciate your interest in NorQuest’s Program name! However, this program is not open to international students at this time. For a full list of programs available to international students, please visit the Programs and Courses page.
If you’re not sure which program is perfect for you, NorQuest’s International Student Recruiters can help. Contact international.recruitment@norquest.ca or book a meeting.
Amiskwacîwâskahikan
We acknowledge that we are on the traditional lands, referred to as Treaty 6 Territory and that the City of Edmonton and all the people here are beneficiaries of this peace and friendship treaty.
NorQuest College
10215 108 Street NW
Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
T5J 1L6
Campus map
Contact us
Programs and courses
How to apply
Student resources
About us
©2026 NorQuest College. All rights reserved.
Terms of use
|
Privacy statement