Help your spouse or common-law partner work in Canada - Canada.ca
Skip to main content
Skip to "About government"
Language selection
Français
fr
/
Gouvernement du Canada
Search
Search IRCC
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Manage life events
Sign in
IRCC sign inIRCC sign in
You are here:
Canada.ca
Immigration and citizenship
Study in Canada as an international student
Working in Canada as an international student
International students
Help your spouse or common-law partner work in Canada
The spouses and common-law partners of some international students may be eligible for an open work permit. An open work permit lets them work for any employer in Canada, except for one that either
is listed as ineligible on the list of employers who have failed to comply with the conditions, or
regularly offers striptease, erotic dance, escort services, or erotic massages
On this page
Who can apply
How to apply
Extending an open work permit
Who can apply
Your spouse or common-law partner must meet the eligibility criteria listed below to be eligible for an open work permit.
Starting January 21, 2025, your spouse or common-law partner may be eligible for an open work permit if you have a valid study permit and you’re either
studying in a master’s degree program of 16 months or longer
studying in a doctoral degree program
participating in an eligible program, or
studying in one of the following professional degree programs at a university:
Doctor of Dental Surgery (DDS, DMD)
Bachelor of Law or Juris Doctor (LLB, JD, BCL)
Doctor of Medicine (MD)
Doctor of Optometry (OD)
Pharmacy (PharmD, BS, BSc, BPharm)
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (DVM)
Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BScN, BSN)
Bachelor of Nursing Science (BNSc)
Bachelor of Nursing (BN)
Bachelor of Education (BEd)
Bachelor of Engineering (BEng, BE, BASc)
If they’re not eligible for this open work permit, they may be able to get another type of work permit.
Eligible programs
Province or territory
Program name
Eligibility period
Outside of Quebec
Francophone Minority Communities Student Pilot (FMCSP)
From August 26, 2024
Quebec
Le projet de reconnaissance des compétences d’infirmières et d’infirmiers recrutés à l’international
From April 30, 2024
Quebec
Projet de reconnaissance des compétences d’inhalothérapeutes formés à l’étranger
Projet de recrutement et reconnaissance des compétences de technologistes médicaux formés à l’étranger
From January 21, 2025
Ontario
Supervised Practice Experience Partnership
From January 21, 2025
Manitoba
Nurse Re-Entry (Red River College Polytechnic)
From January 21, 2025
British Columbia
Internationally Educated Midwives Bridging Program (The University of British Columbia)
Canadian Pharmacy Practice Program (CP3) (The University of British Columbia)
Post-Degree Diploma: Nursing Practice in Canada (Langara College)
From January 21, 2025
Documents to provide
Your spouse or common-law partner must provide one of the following documents to prove your enrolment in a program of study:
a valid letter of acceptance from your designated learning institution (DLI)
a proof of enrolment letter from your DLI
transcripts from your current program
If applicable, they must also provide proof that you’re participating or enrolled in one of the eligible programs, such as
a letter from the province or territory
a letter of acceptance from a participating DLI indicating admission to the program
We’ll also ask them to provide additional documents, such as proof of their relationship to you, the student.
How long the open work permit will be valid
Most of the time, your spouse or common-law partner’s work permit will be valid for the same period of time as your study permit.
How to apply
In most cases, your spouse or common-law partner must apply online for a work permit.
Step 1: Make sure they have what they need
To apply online, they’ll need
a scanner or camera to create electronic copies of their documents, and
a valid credit or debit card
Step 2: Read the instruction guide
Even if they apply online, they should read the instruction guide before they complete their application. The guide will explain how to complete each field on the form.
Step 3: Prepare their answers for the online tool
Before they can upload their forms, they must answer some questions. We use their answers to create a personalized document checklist for them.
Open work permit applications for spouses or common-law partners of students
Due to a technical issue with online applications, you must use the following instructions to apply for the open permit online:
You must answer some questions to create a personalized document checklist.
Answer the following questions in the tool exactly as shown based on if:
You’re applying from outside Canada
When asked: Will you be coming to Canada under an active public policy or special measure announced by IRCC?
Answer No
When asked: Are you a spouse, common-law partner or dependent child of a person who has or is applying for a work permit?
Answer Yes
When asked: Are you a spouse or common-law partner of a person who holds a study permit?
Answer Yes
When asked: What type of work permit do you want to apply for?
Answer “A work permit for a spouse of an international student, or for a family member of a worker”
You’re applying from inside Canada
When asked: Does one of the following apply to you? I am applying for an open work permit under an active public policy or pilot program announced by IRCC.
Answer No
When asked: Are you a spouse, common-law partner or dependent child of a person who holds a valid work permit or is applying for a work permit?
Answer Yes
When asked: Are you a spouse or common-law partner of a person who holds a study permit?
Answer Yes
Step 4: Know the fees you have to pay
In most cases, their fees will include processing fees for them and anyone they include on their application.
We’ll ask them to pay their fees at the end of their application.
Step 5: Create their online account or sign in
They need an account to apply online. They can use their account to:
pay their fees
submit their application
check their status
Create an account or sign in
If they can’t apply online
They can submit a paper application if either:
they can’t apply online because of a disability
there’s a problem with the online application
What to do if they can’t apply online
Extending an open work permit
Your spouse or common-law partner may be eligible to extend their existing open work permit under this stream if you meet the following requirements:
You have a valid study permit.
You’re physically in Canada or will physically be in Canada while studying.
You’re a full-time student enrolled in a PGWP-eligible program at a designated learning institution (DLI).
You’re not in the last term of your study program.
Additionally, your spouse or common-law partner cannot extend their open work permit under this stream beyond the expiration date of your study permit.
Documents you need
Your spouse or common-law partner must give the following documents to prove your enrolment in a program of study leading to a degree:
proof that you’re a full-time student at one of the types of schools listed above, which can include
a letter of enrolment from your DLI
transcripts from your current program
a copy of your study permit
Extend  your open work permit
Credit cards and prepaid cards
We accept credit cards and prepaid cards from:
Visa®,
MasterCard®,
American Express®, and
JCB.
If you use a prepaid credit card, keep it for at least 18 months after you pay to make refunds easier.
We also accept all Visa Debit cards.
The card you use does not have to be in your name. The cardholder’s name will appear on the receipt but it does not need to match your application.
Debit cards
It must:
be from a Canadian bank using INTERAC® Online, and
be registered for online banking through your bank’s website.
We also accept all Visa Debit cards. If your card has the Visa Debit logo on it, alone or with the INTERAC® Online logo, select Visa Debit as your payment method.
The card you use does not have to be in your name. The cardholder’s name will appear on the receipt but it does not need to match your application.
Document navigation
Next: Stay in Canada after graduation
Page details
2026-02-03
About this site
Immigration and citizenship
Help Centre
Contact us
Check your application status
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Government of Canada Corporate
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy