Study permit: Get the right documents - Proof of financial support - Canada.ca
Skip to main content
Skip to "About government"
Language selection
Français
fr
/
Gouvernement du Canada
Search
Search IRCC
Search
Menu
Main Menu
Jobs and the workplace
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business and industry
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Manage life events
Sign in
IRCC sign inIRCC sign in
You are here:
Canada.ca
Immigration and citizenship
Study in Canada as an international student
Study permit
Get the right documents
Study permit: Get the right documents
Who can apply
Get the right documents
Provincial attestation letter or territorial attestation letter
Proof of financial support
How to apply
After you apply
Prepare for your arrival
While you study
Proof of financial support
You must prove that you have enough money, without working in Canada, to pay for all the following:
tuition fees for the course or program of studies
living expenses for yourself and the family members who come with you while you’re in Canada
transportation to and from Canada for yourself and your accompanying family members
How to show you meet the financial capacity requirements
You must provide us with documents that prove you have the required funds available for all the costs listed above. This means that
you must show you have enough financial resources for the first year of your studies
for programs more than a year long, you must also tell us how you plan to pay for the full duration of your studies
For example, you can show proof that your scholarship is more than a year long, proof that your parents are employed, etc.
We’ll assess the amount of funds you have and their source, and confirm that you have funds available to you throughout the full duration of your studies.
Common documents that can be used to show proof of funds
The documents below are examples of documents you can use as proof of funds.
This is not a complete list. There may be other types of documents you can provide as proof instead.
You don’t need to provide all of these documents, but you do need to give enough proof to show that you meet all the financial capacity requirements.
Tuition and study costs
For example, you can use
proof you paid for the first year of your tuition and housing fees, such as a receipt from your designated learning institution
This must be accompanied by other documents proving you have sufficient funds to cover living expenses and transportation costs.
proof of a student or education loan from a bank
proof of a scholarship or that you’re in a Government of Canada–funded educational program
If your scholarship only covers tuition, you must provide other documents proving you have sufficient funds to cover living expenses and transportation costs.
Employment and other financial support
For example, you can use
pay stubs from recent employment
a letter from the person or institution giving you money that includes
their employment or occupation (a letter from the employer, pay stubs, etc.)
their relationship to you
the number of their dependants, if they have any
the amount of their support
proof of the relationship to the person or institution giving you money and evidence of the financial support they will provide
This must include a copy of their identification photo or proof of their business registration.
Banking and other income
For example, you can use
proof of a Canadian bank account in your name if you’ve transferred money to Canada
a guaranteed investment certificate from a Canadian financial institution
your bank statements (for your Canadian or foreign bank account) for the past 6 months, including the month you submitted your application or the month prior
This must include documentation to show the source of the income (employment income, savings transfers, etc.) in the bank statements.
financial documents related to a pension plan
proof of income from rental properties
Other documents may also be required. Check the visa office instructions for your country or region for local requirements.
If your country uses foreign exchange controls, you must prove that you’ll be allowed to export funds for all of your expenses.
How much money you need for living expenses
This chart tells you how much money you will need to support yourself and your family members in Canada for the first year of your program of studies. These amounts are updated each year.
These amounts do not include tuition and transportation costs.
If you apply on or after September 1, 2026
All provinces and territories except Quebec
Number of family members
(including the applicant)
Amount required per year
(excluding tuition and transportation costs)
(in CAN$)
1
$23,448
2
$29,192
3
$35,888
4
$43,572
5
$49,419
6
$55,736
7
$62,054
If more than 7 people, each additional family member
$6,318
Example: If you and 2 family members want to come to a province or territory (other than Quebec) for a year, you’ll need $35,888 for living expenses.
If you apply between January 1, 2025, and August 31, 2026 (inclusively)
All provinces and territories except Quebec
Number of family members (including the applicant)
Amount required per year (excluding tuition and transportation costs) (in CAN$)
1
$22,895
2
$28,502
3
$35,040
4
$42,543
5
$48,252
6
$54,420
7
$60,589
If more than 7 people, each additional family member
$6,170
Example: If you and 2 family members want to come to a province or territory (other than Quebec) for a year, you’ll need $35,040 for living expenses.
Quebec
To obtain a Quebec Acceptance Certificate (Certificat d’acceptation du Québec [CAQ]) and study in Quebec, applicants must show they can financially cover the costs outlined by the Ministère de l’Immigration, de la Francisation et de l’Intégration.
Document navigation
Next: How to apply
Page details
2026-08-28
About this site
Immigration and citizenship
Help Centre
Contact us
Check your application status
Government of Canada
All contacts
Departments and agencies
About government
Themes and topics
Jobs
Immigration and citizenship
Travel and tourism
Business
Benefits
Health
Taxes
Environment and natural resources
National security and defence
Culture, history and sport
Policing, justice and emergencies
Transport and infrastructure
Canada and the world
Money and finances
Science and innovation
Indigenous Peoples
Veterans and military
Youth
Manage life events
Government of Canada Corporate
Social media
Mobile applications
About Canada.ca
Terms and conditions
Privacy